Achalasia symptoms generally appear gradually and get worse over time. Symptoms may include:

Difficulty swallowing, called dysphagia, which may feel like food or drink is stuck in the throat.
Swallowed food or saliva flowing back into the throat.
Heartburn.
Belching.
Chest pain that comes and goes.
Coughing at night.
Pneumonia from getting food in the lungs.
Weight loss.
Vomiting.

Request an appointment







                 
            




There is a problem with
                                information submitted for this request. Review/update the
                                information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

Get the latest health information from Mayo Clinic delivered to your inbox.
                        
Subscribe for free and receive your in-depth guide to
                            digestive health, plus the latest on health innovations and news. You can unsubscribe at any
                            time. Click here for an email preview.

Email address














ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email address



Address 1




Subscribe

Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.

To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which
                                information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with
                                other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, this could
                                include protected health information. If we combine this information with your protected
                                health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health
                                information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of
                                privacy practices. You may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on
                                the unsubscribe link in the e-mail.




Thank you for subscribing



































Your in-depth digestive health guide will be in your inbox shortly. You will also receive
                                emails from Mayo Clinic on the latest health news, research, and care.
If you don’t receive our email within 5 minutes, check your SPAM folder, then contact us
                                at newsletters@mayoclinic.com.


Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes

Retry