Symptoms of an acoustic neuroma are often easy to miss and may take years to develop. Symptoms may occur because of the tumor's effects on the hearing and balance nerves. The tumor also can put pressure on nearby nerves controlling facial muscles, known as the facial nerve, and sensation, known as the trigeminal nerve. Blood vessels or brain structures also can be affected by an acoustic neuroma.
As the tumor grows, it may be more likely to cause more noticeable or worse symptoms.
Common symptoms of an acoustic neuroma include:

Hearing loss, usually gradually over months to years. In rare cases, hearing loss can be sudden. Hearing loss usually occurs on one side or is worse on one side.
Ringing in the affected ear, known as tinnitus.
Loss of balance or not feeling steady.
Dizziness.
Facial numbness and, very rarely, weakness or loss of muscle movement.

Rarely, an acoustic neuroma may grow large enough to compress the brainstem and become life-threatening.
When to see your doctorSee a health care professional if you notice hearing loss in one ear, ringing in your ear or balance problems.
Early diagnosis of an acoustic neuroma may help keep the tumor from growing large enough to cause complications such as total hearing loss.
Request an appointment







                 
            




There is a problem with
                                information submitted for this request. Review/update the
                                information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

Get the latest brain tumor advice from Mayo Clinic delivered in your inbox.
                        
Sign up for free and receive the latest on brain tumor treatment, diagnosis and surgery.

Email address














ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email address



Address 1




Subscribe

Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.

To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which
                                information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with
                                other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, this could
                                include protected health information. If we combine this information with your protected
                                health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health
                                information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of
                                privacy practices. You may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on
                                the unsubscribe link in the e-mail.




Thank you for subscribing

You will receive the first brain tumor email in your inbox shortly, which will include information on treatment, diagnosis, surgery and how brain cancer teams at Mayo Clinic approach personalized care.


Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes

Retry