of acromegaly include an enlarged face and hands. Changes to the face may cause the brow bone and lower jawbone to protrude, and the nose and lips to get larger.





Acromegaly is a hormonal disorder that develops when your pituitary gland produces too much growth hormone during adulthood.
When you have too much growth hormone, your bones increase in size. In childhood, this leads to increased height and is called gigantism. But in adulthood, a change in height doesn't occur. Instead, the increase in bone size is limited to the bones of your hands, feet and face, and is called acromegaly.
Because acromegaly is uncommon and the physical changes occur slowly over many years, the condition sometimes takes a long time to recognize. Untreated, high levels of growth hormone can affect other parts of the body, in addition to your bones. This can lead to serious — sometimes even life-threatening — health problems. But treatment can reduce your risk of complications and significantly improve your symptoms, including the enlargement of your features.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsA common sign of acromegaly is enlarged hands and feet. For example, you may notice that you aren't able to put on rings that used to fit, and that your shoe size has progressively increased.
Acromegaly may also cause gradual changes in your face's shape, such as a protruding lower jaw and brow bone, an enlarged nose, thickened lips, and wider spacing between your teeth.
Because acromegaly tends to progress slowly, early signs may not be obvious for years. Sometimes, people notice the physical changes only by comparing old photos with newer ones.
Overall, acromegaly signs and symptoms tend to vary from one person to another, and may include any of the following:

Enlarged hands and feet.
Enlarged facial features, including the facial bones, lips, nose and tongue.
Coarse, oily, thickened skin.
Excessive sweating and body odor.
Small outgrowths of skin tissue (skin tags).
Fatigue and joint or muscle weakness.
Pain and limited joint mobility.
A deepened, husky voice due to enlarged vocal cords and sinuses.
Severe snoring due to obstruction of the upper airway.
Vision problems.
Headaches, which may be persistent or severe.
Menstrual cycle irregularities in women.
Erectile dysfunction in men.
Loss of interest in sex.