of albinism are usually seen in a person's skin, hair and eye color, but sometimes differences are slight. People with albinism are also sensitive to the effects of the sun, so they're at higher risk of getting skin cancer.
Although there's no cure for albinism, people with the disorder can take steps to protect their skin and eyes and get proper eye and skin care.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsSymptoms of albinism involve skin, hair and eye color, as well as vision.
SkinThe easiest form of albinism to see results in white hair and very light-colored skin compared with siblings or other blood relatives. But skin coloring, also called pigmentation, and hair color can range from white to brown. People of African descent who have albinism may have skin that is light brown or red brown and have freckles. For some people, skin color may be nearly the same as that of parents or siblings without albinism.
With exposure to the sun, some people may develop:

Freckles.
Moles, with or without color, which are sometimes pink.
Large freckle-like spots, called solar lentigines (len-TIJ-ih-neez).
Sunburn and no ability to tan.

For some people with albinism, skin coloring never changes. For others, melanin production may begin or increase during childhood and the teen years, resulting in slight changes in color.
HairHair color can range from very white to brown. People of African or Asian descent who have albinism may have hair color that's yellow, red or brown. Hair color also may darken by early adulthood. Or hair may stain from contact with minerals in water and the environment, making hair appear darker with age.
Eye colorEyelashes and eyebrows are often pale. Eye color can range from very light blue to brown and may change with age.
With albinism, the colored parts of the eyes, called the irises, usually don't have enough pigment. This allows light to shine through the irises and makes the eyes extremely sensitive to bright light. Because of this, very light-colored eyes may appear red in some lighting.
VisionVision problems are a key feature of all types of albinism. Eye problems may include:

Rapid, back-and-forth movement of the eyes that can't be controlled, called nystagmus.
An uncommon head position or head posture, such as tilting the head to try to reduce eye movements and see better.
Eyes that can't look at the same direction at the same time or they appear to be crossed, a condition called strabismus.
Problems seeing near objects or far objects, called farsightedness or nearsightedness.
Extreme sensitivity to light, called photophobia.
A difference in the curve of the front surface of the eye or the lens inside the eye, called astigmatism, which causes blurred vision.
Differences in the development of the thin layer of tissue on the inside back wall of the eye, called the retina. This difference results in reduced vision.
Nerve signals from the retina to the brain that don't follow the usual nerve pathways in the eye. This is called misrouting of the optic nerve.
Poor depth perception, which means not being able to see things in three dimensions and judge how far away an object is.
Legal blindness — vision less than 20/200 — or complete blindness.