Memory loss is the key symptom of Alzheimer's disease. Early signs include difficulty remembering recent events or conversations. But memory gets worse and other symptoms develop as the disease progresses. 
At first, someone with the disease may be aware of having trouble remembering things and thinking clearly. As symptoms get worse, a family member or friend may be more likely to notice the issues.
Brain changes associated with Alzheimer's disease lead to growing trouble with:
MemoryEveryone has memory lapses at times, but the memory loss associated with Alzheimer's disease persists and gets worse. Over time, memory loss affects the ability to function at work or at home.
People with Alzheimer's disease may:

Repeat statements and questions over and over.
Forget conversations, appointments or events.
Misplace items, often putting them in places that don't make sense.
Get lost in places they used to know well.
Eventually forget the names of family members and everyday objects.
Have trouble finding the right words for objects, expressing thoughts or taking part in conversations.

Thinking and reasoningAlzheimer's disease causes difficulty concentrating and thinking, especially about abstract concepts such as numbers.
Doing more than one task at once is especially difficult. It may be challenging to manage finances, balance checkbooks and pay bills on time. Eventually, a person with Alzheimer's disease may be unable to recognize and deal with numbers.
Making judgments and decisionsAlzheimer's disease causes a decline in the ability to make sensible decisions and judgments in everyday situations. For example, a person may make poor choices in social settings or wear clothes for the wrong type of weather. It may become harder for someone to respond to everyday problems. For example, the person may not know how to handle food burning on the stove or decisions when driving.
Planning and performing familiar tasksRoutine activities that require completing steps in order become a struggle. This may include planning and cooking a meal or playing a favorite game. Eventually, people with advanced Alzheimer's disease forget how to do basic tasks such as dressing and bathing.
Changes in personality and behaviorBrain changes that occur in Alzheimer's disease can affect moods and behaviors. Problems may include the following:

Depression.
Loss of interest in activities.
Social withdrawal.
Mood swings.
Distrust in others.
Anger or aggression.
Changes in sleeping habits.
Wandering.
Loss of inhibitions.
Delusions, such as believing something has been stolen.

Preserved skillsDespite major changes to memory and skills, people with Alzheimer's disease are able to hold on to some skills even as symptoms get worse. Preserved skills may include reading or listening to books, telling stories, sharing memories, singing, listening to music, dancing, drawing, or doing crafts.
These skills may be preserved longer because they're controlled by parts of the brain affected later in the course of the disease.