Symptoms of ALS vary from person to person. Symptoms depend on which nerve cells are affected. ALS generally begins with muscle weakness that spreads and gets worse over time. Symptoms might include:

Trouble walking or doing usual daily activities.
Tripping and falling.
Weakness in the legs, feet or ankles.
Hand weakness or clumsiness.
Slurred speech or trouble swallowing.
Weakness associated with muscle cramps and twitching in the arms, shoulders and tongue.
Untimely crying, laughing or yawning.
Thinking or behavioral changes.

ALS often starts in the hands, feet, arms or legs. Then it spreads to other parts of the body. Muscles get weaker as more nerve cells die. This eventually affects chewing, swallowing, speaking and breathing.
There's generally no pain in the early stages of ALS. Pain also is not common in the later stages. ALS doesn't usually affect bladder control. It also usually doesn't affect the senses, including the ability to taste, smell, touch and hear.
Request an appointment







                 
            




There is a problem with
                                information submitted for this request. Review/update the
                                information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
                        
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.












Email



 Address 1



ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email address

Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.

To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which
                                information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with
                                other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, this could
                                include protected health information. If we combine this information with your protected
                                health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health
                                information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of
                                privacy practices. You may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on
                                the unsubscribe link in the e-mail.


Subscribe!




Thank you for subscribing!

You'll soon start receiving the latest Mayo Clinic health information you requested in your inbox.


Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes

Retry