There are several types of bipolar and related disorders:

Bipolar I disorder. You've had at least one manic episode that may come before or after hypomanic or major depressive episodes. In some cases, mania may cause a break from reality. This is called psychosis.
Bipolar II disorder. You've had at least one major depressive episode and at least one hypomanic episode. But you've never had a manic episode.
Cyclothymia. You've had at least two years — or one year in children and teenagers — of many periods of hypomania symptoms and periods of depressive symptoms. These symptoms are less severe than major depression.
Other types. These types include bipolar and related disorders caused by certain drugs or alcohol, or due to a medical condition, such as Cushing's disease, multiple sclerosis or stroke.

These types may include mania, or hypomania, which is less extreme than mania, and depression. Symptoms can cause changes in mood and behavior that can't be predicted. This can lead to a lot of distress and cause you to have a hard time in life.
Bipolar II disorder is not a milder form of bipolar I disorder. It's a separate diagnosis. While the manic episodes of bipolar I disorder can be severe and dangerous, people with bipolar II disorder can be depressed for longer periods of time.
Bipolar disorder can start at any age, but usually it's diagnosed in the teenage years or early 20s. Symptoms can differ from person to person, and symptoms may vary over time.
Mania and hypomaniaMania and hypomania are different, but they have the same symptoms. Mania is more severe than hypomania. It causes more noticeable problems at work, school and social activities, as well as getting along with others. Mania also may cause a break from reality, known as psychosis. You many need to stay in a hospital for treatment.
Manic and hypomanic episodes include three or more of these symptoms:

Being much more active, energetic or agitated than usual.
Feeling a distorted sense of well-being or too self-confident.
Needing much less sleep than usual.
Being unusually talkative and talking fast.
Having racing thoughts or jumping quickly from one topic to another.
Being easy to distract.
Making poor decisions. For example, you may go on buying sprees, take sexual risks or make foolish investments.

Major depressive episodeA major depressive episode includes symptoms that are severe enough to cause you to have a hard time doing day-to-day activities. These activities include going to work or school, as well as taking part in social activities and getting along with others.
An episode includes five or more of these symptoms:

Having a depressed mood. You may feel sad, empty, hopeless or tearful. Children and teens who are depressed can seem irritable, angry or hostile.
Having a marked loss of interest or feeling no pleasure in all or most activities.
Losing a lot of weight when not dieting or overeating and gaining weight. When children don't gain weight as expected, this can be a sign of depression.
Sleeping too little or too much.
Feeling restless or acting slower than usual.
Being very tired or losing energy.
Feeling worthless, feeling too guilty or feeling guilty when it's not necessary.
Having a hard time thinking or concentrating, or not being able to make decisions.
Thinking about, planning or attempting suicide.

Other features of bipolar disorderSymptoms of bipolar disorders, including depressive episodes, may include other features, such as:

Anxious distress, when you're feeling symptoms of anxiety and fear that you're losing control.
Melancholy, when you feel very sad and have a deep loss of pleasure.
Psychosis, when your thoughts or emotions disconnect from reality.

The timing of symptoms may be described as:

Mixed, when you have symptoms of depression and mania or hypomania at the same time.
Rapid cycling, when you have four mood episodes in the past year where you switch between mania and hypomania and major depression.

Also, bipolar symptoms may happen when you're pregnant. Or symptoms can change with the seasons.
Symptoms in children and teensSymptoms of bipolar disorder can be hard to identify in children and teens. It's often hard to tell whether these symptoms are the usual ups and downs or due to stress or trauma, or if they're signs of a mental health problem other than bipolar disorder.
Children and teens may have distinct major depressive or manic or hypomanic episodes. But the pattern can vary from adults with bipolar disorder. Moods can shift fast during episodes. Some children may have periods without mood symptoms between episodes.
The most noticeable signs of bipolar disorder in children and teenagers may be severe mood swings that aren't like their usual mood swings.