The signs and symptoms of a brain tumor depend on the brain tumor's size and location. Symptoms also might depend on how fast the brain tumor is growing, which is also called the tumor grade.
General signs and symptoms caused by brain tumors may include:

Headache or pressure in the head that is worse in the morning.
Headaches that happen more often and seem more severe.
Headaches that are sometimes described as tension headaches or migraines.
Nausea or vomiting.
Eye problems, such as blurry vision, seeing double or losing sight on the sides of your vision.
Losing feeling or movement in an arm or a leg.
Trouble with balance.
Speech problems.
Feeling very tired.
Confusion in everyday matters.
Memory problems.
Having trouble following simple commands.
Personality or behavior changes.
Seizures, especially if there is no history of seizures.
Hearing problems.
Dizziness or a sense that the world is spinning, also called vertigo.
Feeling very hungry and gaining weight.

Brain tumors that aren't cancerous tend to cause symptoms that develop slowly. Noncancerous brain tumors also are called benign brain tumors. They might cause subtle symptoms that you don't notice at first. The symptoms might get worse over months or years.
Cancerous brain tumors cause symptoms that get worse quickly. Cancerous brain tumors also are called brain cancers or malignant brain tumors. They cause symptoms that come on suddenly. They get worse in a matter of days or weeks.
Brain tumor headachesHeadaches are the most common symptom of brain tumors. Headaches happen in about half of people with brain tumors. Headaches can happen if a growing brain tumor presses on healthy cells around it. Or a brain tumor can cause swelling in the brain that increases pressure in the head and leads to a headache.
Headache pain caused by brain tumors is often worse when you wake up in the morning. But it can happen at any time. Some people have headaches that wake them from sleep. Brain tumor headaches tend to cause pain that's worse when coughing or straining. People with brain tumors most often report that the headache feels like a tension headache. Some people say the headache feels like a migraine.
Brain tumors in the back of the head might cause a headache with neck pain. If the brain tumor happens in the front of the head, the headache might feel like eye pain or sinus pain.
Brain tumor symptoms by location




	    Brain lobes
	    Enlarge image









Close



Brain lobes


Brain lobes
Each side of your brain contains four lobes. The frontal lobe is important for cognitive functions and control of voluntary movement or activity. The parietal lobe processes information about temperature, taste, touch and movement, while the occipital lobe is primarily responsible for vision. The temporal lobe processes memories, integrating them with sensations of taste, sound, sight and touch.





The main part of the brain is called the cerebrum. Brain tumors in different parts of the cerebrum might cause different symptoms.

Brain tumors in the front of the brain. The frontal lobes are in the front of the brain. They control thinking and movement. Frontal lobe brain tumors might cause balance problems and trouble walking. There might be personality changes, such as forgetfulness and lack of interest in usual activities. Sometimes family members notice that the person with the brain tumor seems different.
Brain tumors in the middle of the brain. The parietal lobes are in the upper middle part of the brain. They help process information about touch, taste, smell, vision and hearing. Parietal lobe brain tumors can cause problems related to the senses. Examples include vision problems and hearing problems.
Brain tumors in the back of the brain. The occipital lobes are in the back of the brain. They control vision. Occipital lobe brain tumors can cause vision loss.
Brain tumors in the lower part of the brain. The temporal lobes are on the sides of the brain. They process memories and senses. Temporal lobe brain tumors can cause memory problems. They might cause someone to see, taste or smell something that isn't there. Sometimes the taste or smell is unpleasant or unusual.