may not occur until late childhood or adulthood. The pediatric forms of Chiari malformation are type 2 and type 3. These types are present at birth, which is known as congenital.
Treatment of Chiari malformation depends on the type and the symptoms. Regular monitoring, medicines and surgery are treatment options. Sometimes no treatment is needed.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsMany people with Chiari malformation have no symptoms and don't need treatment. They learn they have Chiari malformation only when tests are performed for unrelated conditions. But some types of Chiari malfunction can cause symptoms.
The more common types of Chiari malformation are:

Type 1
Type 2

These types are less serious than the rarer pediatric form, type 3. But symptoms still can disrupt life.
Chiari malformation type 1In Chiari malformation type 1, symptoms usually appear during late childhood or adulthood.
Bad headaches are the classic symptom of Chiari malformation. They generally occur after sudden coughing, sneezing or straining. People with Chiari malformation type 1 also can experience:

Neck pain.
Unsteady walk and trouble with balance.
Poor hand coordination.
Numbness and tingling of the hands and feet.
Dizziness.
Trouble swallowing. This sometimes happens with gagging, choking and vomiting.
Speech changes, such as hoarseness.

Less often, people with Chiari malformation may experience:

Ringing or buzzing in the ears, known as tinnitus.
Weakness.
Slow heart rhythm.
Curvature of the spine, known as scoliosis. The curvature is related to spinal cord impairment.
Trouble with breathing. This includes central sleep apnea, which is when a person stops breathing during sleep.

Chiari malformation type 2In Chiari malformation type 2, a greater amount of tissue extends into the spinal canal compared with that in Chiari malformation type 1.
Symptoms can include those related to a form of spina bifida called myelomeningocele. Chiari malformation type 2 nearly always occurs with myelomeningocele. In myelomeningocele, the backbone and the spinal canal don't close properly before birth.
Symptoms may include:

Changes in breathing pattern.
Trouble swallowing, such as gagging.
Quick downward eye movements.
Weakness in the arms.

Chiari malformation type 2 is usually noted with ultrasound during pregnancy. It also may be diagnosed after birth or in early infancy.
Chiari malformation type 3Chiari malformation type 3 is the most serious type of the condition. A portion of the lower back part of the brain, known as the cerebellum, or the brainstem extend through an opening in the skull. This form of Chiari malformation is diagnosed at birth or during pregnancy with an ultrasound.
Chiari malformation type 3 causes brain and nervous system issues and has a higher rate of death.