Children with childhood apraxia of speech (CAS) may have a variety of speech symptoms. Symptoms vary depending on a child's age and the severity of the speech problems.
CAS can result in:

Babbling less or making fewer vocal sounds than is typical between the ages of 7 to 12 months.
Speaking first words late, typically after ages 12 to 18 months old.
Using a limited number of consonants and vowels.
Often leaving out sounds when speaking.
Using speech that is hard to understand.

These symptoms are usually noticed between ages 18 months and 2 years. Symptoms at this age may indicate suspected CAS. Suspected CAS means a child may potentially have this speech disorder. The child's speech development should be watched to determine if therapy should begin.
Children usually produce more speech between ages 2 and 4. Signs that may indicate CAS include:

Vowel and consonant distortions.
Pauses between syllables or words.
Voicing errors, such as "pie" sounding like "bye."

Many children with CAS have trouble getting their jaws, lips and tongues to the correct positions to make a sound. They also may have a hard time moving smoothly to the next sound.
Many children with CAS also have language problems, such as reduced vocabulary or trouble with word order.
Some symptoms may be unique to children with CAS, which helps to make a diagnosis. However, some symptoms of CAS are also symptoms of other types of speech or language disorders. It's hard to diagnose CAS if a child has only symptoms that are found both in CAS and in other disorders.
Some characteristics, sometimes called markers, help distinguish CAS from other types of speech disorders. Those associated with CAS include:

Trouble moving smoothly from one sound, syllable or word to another.
Groping movements with the jaw, lips or tongue to try to make the correct movement for speech sounds.
Vowel distortions, such as trying to use the correct vowel but saying it incorrectly.
Using the wrong stress in a word, such as pronouncing "banana" as "BUH-nan-uh" instead of "buh-NAN-uh."
Using equal emphasis on all syllables, such as saying "BUH-NAN-UH."
Separation of syllables, such as putting a pause or gap between syllables.
Inconsistency, such as making different errors when trying to say the same word a second time.
Having a hard time imitating simple words.
Voicing errors, such as saying "down" instead of "town."

Other speech disorders sometimes confused with CASSome speech sound disorders often get confused with CAS because some of the symptoms may overlap. These speech sound disorders include articulation disorders, phonological disorders and dysarthria.
A child with an articulation or phonological disorder has trouble learning how to make and use specific sounds. Unlike in CAS, the child doesn't have trouble planning or coordinating the movements to speak. Articulation and phonological disorders are more common than CAS.
Articulation or phonological speech errors may include:

Substituting sounds. The child might say "fum" instead of "thumb," "wabbit" instead of "rabbit" or "tup" instead of "cup."
Leaving out final consonants. A child with CAS might say "duh" instead of "duck" or "uh" instead of "up."
Stopping the airstream. The child might say "tun" instead of "sun" or "doo" instead of "zoo."
Simplifying sound combinations. The child might say "ting" instead of "string" or "fog" instead of "frog."

Dysarthria is a speech disorder that occurs because the speech muscles are weak. Making speech sounds is hard because the speech muscles can't move as far, as quickly or as strongly as they do during typical speech. People with dysarthria may also have a hoarse, soft or even strained voice. Or they may have slurred or slow speech.
Dysarthria is often easier to identify than CAS. However, when dysarthria is caused by damage to areas of the brain that affect coordination, it can be hard to determine the differences between CAS and dysarthria.
Request an appointment