of CTE are thought to include trouble with thinking and emotions, physical problems, and other behaviors. It's thought that these develop years to decades after head trauma occurs.
CTE can't be definitively diagnosed during life except in people with high-risk exposures. Researchers are currently developing diagnostic biomarkers for CTE, but none has been validated yet. When the symptoms associated with CTE occur, health care providers may diagnose traumatic encephalopathy syndrome.
Experts don't yet know how often CTE occurs in the population, but it appears to be rare. They also don't fully understand the causes. There is no cure for CTE.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsThere are no specific symptoms that have been clearly linked to CTE. Some of the possible symptoms can occur in many other conditions. In the people who were confirmed to have CTE at autopsy, symptoms have included cognitive, behavioral, mood and motor changes.
Cognitive impairment
Trouble thinking.
Memory loss.
Problems with planning, organization and carrying out tasks.

Behavioral changes
Impulsive behavior.
Aggression.

Mood disorders
Depression or apathy.
Emotional instability.
Substance misuse.
Suicidal thoughts or behavior.

Motor symptoms
Problems with walking and balance.
Parkinsonism, which causes shaking, slow movement and trouble with speech.
Motor neuron disease, which destroys cells that control walking, speaking, swallowing and breathing.

CTE symptoms don't develop right after a head injury. Experts believe that they develop over years or decades after repeated head trauma.
Experts also believe that CTE symptoms appear in two forms. In early life between the late 20s and early 30s, the first form of CTE may cause mental health and behavioral issues. Symptoms of this form include depression, anxiety, impulsive behavior and aggression. The second form of CTE is thought to cause symptoms later in life, around age 60. These symptoms include memory and thinking problems that are likely to progress to dementia.
The full list of signs to look for in people with CTE at autopsy is still unknown. There's also little known about how CTE progresses.