for more serious forms of congenital heart defects may become evident in the first few days or months after birth. You may notice a pale gray or blue skin color called cyanosis. Babies use a lot of calories and effort when they're eating. Thus, eating often brings out symptoms of heart failure, such as rapid breathing or shortness of breath. Poor weight gain caused by the heart defect or by difficulty feeding due to symptoms while feeding, can be a sign of congenital heart disease. Some less serious conditions may not be diagnosed until later in childhood. Signs in older children can include becoming easily short of breath, easily tiring, or fainting during exercise or activity. They may also have swelling in the hands, the ankles and the feet. Your pediatrician may also hear an abnormal heartbeat or abnormal heart sound called a murmur during a checkup. Most of these murmurs are actually innocent, but it's important to check them out.
Some congenital heart defects can be seen on an ultrasound while the baby is still in the womb. In certain extreme cases, treatment may be advised before a baby is even born. This may be done to correct the problem or reduce complications as the child continues to develop. In order to determine if your child has congenital heart disease, your doctor will do a physical exam and listen to their heart with a stethoscope. They'll ask about the child's symptoms and their medical history and any history of heart problems in their families. Then, if needed, they may advise other tests. A pulse oximetry measurement may be performed to estimate the amount of oxygen in the blood. This is a simple test done with a finger sensor. An electrocardiogram, or ECG, can be conducted to record the electrical signals in their heart. This is non-invasive and painless. Your doctor might want to schedule an echocardiogram, which uses sound waves to create an image of the heart. An echocardiogram allows the doctor to see the heart muscle and valves in motion and diagnoses most forms of congenital heart disease. They might be given a chest x-ray, which could reveal issues in the size and the shape of the heart. In some conditions, your doctor may order a cardiac MRI, which uses large magnets to take images of the heart in motion. Your doctor may ask for a cardiac catheterization. For this, a catheter or a small plastic tube placed via a needle into an artery or vein in your leg, arm or neck, and advanced into the different chambers of your heart. This way, doctors can check the blood flow and the pressure inside the heart chambers themselves. Today, doctors use cardiac catheterization methods to close certain kinds of holes in the heart or to place expandable valves.
If your child has congenital heart disease, they will need care throughout their life. However, not every child with congenital heart disease requires active treatment and the defect may pose no harm to their health. Some defects, like a small hole in the heart, may resolve on their own. Some conditions can be treated with medications. These can include blood pressure medications, heart rhythm medications, and medications to help you get rid of excess water in your body. More serious forms of congenital heart diseases may require surgery or other procedures. This may be open-heart or a less invasive type of surgery. And, in cases where repairs aren't an option, a heart transplant may be needed. Doctors try to limit these interventions as much as possible and only recommend them if absolutely needed.
It is important to familiarize yourself with your child's condition. Keep an eye out for worsening or new symptoms, and be aware of any lifestyle adjustments recommended by your cardiologist. As patients get older, it is crucial that they continue care with an adult-focused cardiologist with training in congenital heart disease. Finding out your child has a heart defect is scary and can be for them too, if they're old enough to understand it. But no matter when the diagnosis is made, progress in research and treatment have greatly increased not only survival rates, but overall quality of life for patients living with congenital heart disease. There's a great deal of hope for children with congenital heart disease. And we expect all to have happy childhoods that lead to long, full, productive lives. If you want to learn even more about congenital heart disease in children, watch our other related videos or visit mayoclinic.org. We wish you well.


Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health Book

Types




Atrial septal defect (ASD)


Atrioventricular canal defect


Bicuspid aortic valve


Coarctation of the aorta


Congenital mitral valve anomalies


Double-outlet right ventricle


Ebstein anomaly


Eisenmenger syndrome


Hypoplastic left heart syndrome


Kawasaki disease


Long QT syndrome


Partial anomalous pulmonary venous return


Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA)


Patent foramen ovale


Pulmonary atresia


Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum


Pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect


Pulmonary valve stenosis


Tetralogy of Fallot


Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR)


Transposition of the great arteries


Tricuspid atresia


Truncus arteriosus


Vascular rings


Ventricular septal defect (VSD)


Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome




SymptomsSerious congenital heart defects usually are found soon after birth or during the first few months of life. Symptoms could include:

Pale gray or blue lips, tongue, or fingernails. Depending on the skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Rapid breathing.
Swelling in the legs, belly or areas around the eyes.
Shortness of breath during feedings, leading to poor weight gain.

Less-serious congenital heart defects may not be found until later in childhood. Symptoms of congenital heart defects in older children may include:

Easily getting short of breath during exercise or activity.
Getting tired very easily during exercise or activity.
Fainting during exercise or activity.
Swelling in the hands, ankles or feet.