There are no specific symptoms that indicate a conjoined twin pregnancy. As with other twin pregnancies, the uterus may grow faster than it does with a single baby. And there may be more tiredness, nausea and vomiting early in the pregnancy. Conjoined twins can be diagnosed early in the pregnancy using an ultrasound.
How twins are joinedConjoined twins are usually classified according to where they're joined. The twins sometimes share organs or other parts of their bodies. Each pair of conjoined twins is unique.
Conjoined twins may be joined at any of these sites:

Chest. Thoracopagus (thor-uh-KOP-uh-gus) twins are joined face to face at the chest. They often have a shared heart and may also share one liver and upper intestine. This is one of the most common sites of conjoined twins.
Abdomen. Omphalopagus (om-fuh-LOP-uh-gus) twins are joined near the bellybutton. Many omphalopagus twins share the liver and some part of the upper digestive (gastrointestinal or GI) tract. Some twins share the lower part of the small intestine (ileum) and the longest part of the large intestine (colon). They generally do not share a heart.
Base of spine. Pygopagus (pie-GOP-uh-gus) twins are commonly joined back to back at the base of the spine and the buttocks. Some pygopagus twins share the lower gastrointestinal (GI) tract. A few twins share the genital and urinary organs.
Length of spine. Rachipagus (ray-KIP-uh-gus), also called rachiopagus (ray-kee-OP-uh-gus), twins are joined back to back along the length of the spine. This type is very rare.
Pelvis. Ischiopagus (is-kee-OP-uh-gus) twins are joined at the pelvis, either face to face or end to end. Many ischiopagus twins share the lower GI tract, as well as the liver and genital and urinary tract organs. Each twin may have two legs or, less commonly, the twins share two or three legs.
Trunk. Parapagus (pa-RAP-uh-gus) twins are joined side to side at the pelvis and part or all of the belly (abdomen) and chest, but with separate heads. The twins can have two, three or four arms and two or three legs.
Head. Craniopagus (kray-nee-OP-uh-gus) twins are joined at the back, top or side of the head, but not the face. Craniopagus twins share a portion of the skull. But their brains are usually separate, though they may share some brain tissue.
Head and chest. Cephalopagus (sef-uh-LOP-uh-gus) twins are joined at the head and upper body. The faces are on opposite sides of a single shared head, and they share a brain. These twins rarely survive.

In rare cases, twins may be conjoined with one twin smaller and less fully formed than the other (asymmetric conjoined twins). In extremely rare cases, one twin may be found partially developed within the other twin (fetus in fetu).
Request an appointment