include trouble breathing, a daily cough that brings up mucus and a tight, whistling sound in the lungs called wheezing.
COPD is most often caused by long-term exposure to irritating smoke, fumes, dust or chemicals. The most common cause is cigarette smoke.
Emphysema and chronic bronchitis are the two most common types of COPD. These two conditions usually occur together and can vary in severity among people with COPD.
Chronic bronchitis is inflammation of the lining of the tubes that bring air into the lungs. These tubes are called bronchi. The inflammation prevents good airflow into and out of the lungs and makes extra mucus. In emphysema, the small air sacs of the lungs, called alveoli, are damaged. The damaged alveoli can't pass enough oxygen into the bloodstream.
Although COPD is a condition that can get worse over time, COPD is treatable. With proper management, most people with COPD can control symptoms and improve their quality of life. Proper management also can lower the risk of other conditions linked to COPD, such as heart disease and lung cancer.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsCOPD symptoms often don't appear until a lot of lung damage has occurred. Symptoms usually worsen over time, especially if smoking or other irritating exposure continues.
Symptoms of COPD may include:

Trouble catching your breath, especially during physical activities.
Wheezing or whistling sounds when breathing.
Ongoing cough that may bring up a lot of mucus. The mucus may be clear, white, yellow or greenish.
Chest tightness or heaviness.
Lack of energy or feeling very tired.
Frequent lung infections.
Losing weight without meaning to. This may happen as the condition worsens.
Swelling in ankles, feet or legs.

People with COPD also are likely to have times when their symptoms become worse than the usual day-to-day variation. This time of worsening symptoms is called an exacerbation (eg-zas-er-bay-shun). Exacerbations can last for several days to weeks. They can be caused by triggers such as smells, cold air, air pollution, colds or infections. Symptoms may include:

Working harder than usual to breathe or having trouble breathing.
Chest tightness.
Coughing more often.
More mucus or changes in mucus color or thickness.
Fever.