The signs of craniosynostosis are usually noticeable at birth, but they become more apparent during the first few months of your baby's life. Signs and severity depend on how many sutures are fused and when in brain development the fusion occurs. Signs and symptoms can include:

A misshapen skull, with the shape depending on which of the sutures are affected
Development of a raised, hard ridge along affected sutures, with a change in the shape of the head that's not typical

Types of craniosynostosisThere are several types of craniosynostosis. Most involve the fusion of a single cranial suture. Some complex forms of craniosynostosis involve the fusion of multiple sutures. Multiple suture craniosynostosis is usually linked to genetic syndromes and is called syndromic craniosynostosis.
The term given to each type of craniosynostosis depends on what sutures are affected. Types of craniosynostosis include:

Sagittal (scaphocephaly). Premature fusion of the sagittal suture that runs from the front to the back at the top of the skull forces the head to grow long and narrow. This head shape is called scaphocephaly. Sagittal craniosynostosis is the most common type of craniosynostosis.
Coronal. Premature fusion of one of the coronal sutures (unicoronal) that run from each ear to the top of the skull may cause the forehead to flatten on the affected side and bulge on the unaffected side. It also leads to turning of the nose and a raised eye socket on the affected side. When both coronal sutures fuse prematurely (bicoronal), the head has a short and wide appearance, often with the forehead tilted forward.
Metopic. The metopic suture runs from the top of the bridge of the nose up through the midline of the forehead to the anterior fontanel and the sagittal suture. Premature fusion gives the forehead a triangular appearance and widens the back part of the head. This head shape is also called trigonocephaly.
Lambdoid. Lambdoid synostosis is a rare type of craniosynostosis that involves the lambdoid suture, which runs along the back of the head. It may cause one side of a baby's head to appear flat, one ear to be higher than the other ear and tilting of the top of the head to one side.

Other reasons for a misshapen headA misshapen head doesn't always indicate craniosynostosis. For example, if the back of your baby's head appears flattened, it could be the result of spending too much time lying on one side of the head. This can be treated with regular position changes, or if significant, with helmet therapy (cranial orthosis) to help reshape the head to a more balanced appearance.