can range in severity and it can depend on the area of the GI tract that's affected. You also may experience periods of remission when you have no symptoms or issues at all. The symptoms can come on gradually, but they can also show up suddenly. And these can include diarrhea, fever, fatigue, abdominal pain and cramping, blood in your stool, mouth sores, reduced appetite and weight loss. If your Crohn's disease has caused fistulas or inflamed tunnels in the skin near the anal area, you may notice pain or drainage. And in more severe cases, you may have inflammation of the eyes, skin, joints, liver or bile ducts, kidney stones, and anemia. In children, it can delay growth and development. Over time, Crohn's disease can lead to other complications, including bowel obstruction, ulcers, fistulas, anal fissures, malnutrition, and other health problems. It can also increase your risk for blood clots and colon cancer. Having these symptoms doesn't automatically mean you have Crohn's. But if you're experiencing anything that concerns you, it's a good idea to make an appointment with your doctor.
How is it diagnosed?
There's no single test for Crohn's disease, and it has similar symptoms to a lot of other conditions, so it can take a little time to get a diagnosis. First, your doctor is going to consider your medical history. Then your doctor may want to run a variety of tests or procedures. And at some point, your general practitioner may want to refer you to a specialist called a gastroenterologist like myself. A blood test can check for anemia and check for signs of infection. A stool study can test if there's blood present or rule out certain pathogens. A colonoscopy may be needed. This also allows your doctor to view your entire colon and the very end of the ileum using an endoscope, a small camera mounted on a thin flexible tube. They can take tissue samples for a biopsy at the same time. And the presence of granulomas or clusters of inflammatory cells, can essentially confirm the diagnosis. A CT scan might be ordered for a better look at the bowel and all of the surrounding tissues; or an MRI, which is especially good for evaluating fistulas around the anus or the small intestine. A capsule endoscopy can be done. Here you actually swallow the camera about the size of a large vitamin and it takes images of your digestive tract as it travels through. And a balloon-assisted enteroscopy may be done to get further into the bowel than a standard endoscope can if abnormalities have been found that need further investigation.
How is it treated?
Your doctor can work with you to find therapies that alleviate your symptoms. One of the main goals is to reduce the inflammation that produces painful and disruptive issues. Another is to limit complications over the long-term. There is currently no cure, but many treatments can provide a lot of relief, and in some cases, even long-term remission. These may include anti-inflammatory drugs like corticosteroids, immune system suppressants, and antibiotics. Certain biologics, which target proteins made by the immune system, can help. Antidiarrheals, pain relievers, and supplements can help counter other symptoms. Nutritional therapy and a special diet may be recommended. And in some cases where other measures aren't effective, surgery may be required. And that's to remove the damaged tissue. Some of these therapies may have side effects themselves. So be sure and review the risks and benefits with your doctor.
What now?
Crohn's disease can be physically and emotionally challenging, but there are things that can help. Although there's no firm evidence that any particular foods cause Crohn's disease, certain things seem to aggravate flare-ups. So a food diary can help you identify personal triggers. Beyond that, limit dairy products, eating smaller meals, stay hydrated, and try to avoid caffeine, alcohol, and carbonation. Consider multivitamins if you're concerned about weight loss. Or if your diet has become too limited, talk to a registered dietitian. And again, if you smoke, you should stop. It's important to take care of your mental health too. Find ways to manage stress, like exercise, breathing, relaxation techniques or biofeedback. Some symptoms like abdominal pain, gas, and diarrhea... they can cause anxiety and frustration. They can make it difficult to go out in public for any amount of time. It can feel limiting and isolating and lead to depression. So learn as much as you can about Crohn's. Staying informed can help a lot in feeling like you're in control of your condition. Talk to a therapist, especially one familiar with inflammatory bowel disease. Your doctor can give you some recommendations. And you might want to find a support group of people going through the same thing that you are. Crohn's disease is a complex disease. But having expert medical care and developing a treatment strategy can make it more manageable and even help you get back to the freedom of your normal life. Meanwhile, significant advances continue to be made in understanding and treating the disease, getting us closer to curing it or preventing it entirely. If you'd like to learn more about Crohn's disease, here are other related videos or visit mayoclinic.org. We wish you well.







	    Digestive system
	    Enlarge image









Close



Digestive system


Digestive system
In Crohn's disease, any part of your small or large intestine can be involved. It may involve multiple segments, or it may be continuous. Crohn's disease most commonly affects the last part of the small intestine (ileum) and parts of the colon.







Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Blog

Connect with others and follow the latest advances in treating Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis on Mayo Clinic Connect.

Crohn's disease is a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). It causes swelling of the tissues (inflammation) in your digestive tract, which can lead to abdominal pain, severe diarrhea, fatigue, weight loss and malnutrition.
Inflammation caused by Crohn's disease can involve different areas of the digestive tract in different people, most commonly the small intestine. This inflammation often spreads into the deeper layers of the bowel.
Crohn's disease can be both painful and debilitating, and sometimes may lead to life-threatening complications.
There's no known cure for Crohn's disease, but therapies can greatly reduce its signs and symptoms and even bring about long-term remission and healing of inflammation. With treatment, many people with Crohn's disease are able to function well.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic on Crohn’s Disease and Ulcerative ColitisA Book: Mayo Clinic on Digestive HealthNutritional Supplements at Mayo Clinic StoreShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsIn Crohn's disease, any part of your small or large intestine can be involved. It may involve multiple segments, or it may be continuous. In some people, the disease is only in the colon, which is part of the large intestine.
Signs and symptoms of Crohn's disease can range from mild to severe. They usually develop gradually, but sometimes will come on suddenly, without warning. You may also have periods of time when you have no signs or symptoms (remission).
When the disease is active, symptoms typically include:

Diarrhea
Fever
Fatigue
Abdominal pain and cramping
Blood in your stool
Mouth sores
Reduced appetite and weight loss
Pain or drainage near or around the anus due to inflammation from a tunnel into the skin (fistula)

Other signs and symptomsPeople with severe Crohn's disease may also experience symptoms outside of the intestinal tract, including:

Inflammation of skin, eyes and joints
Inflammation of the liver or bile ducts
Kidney stones
Iron deficiency (anemia)
Delayed growth or sexual development, in children