of delirium are sometimes confused with symptoms of dementia. Health care providers may rely on input from a family member or caregiver to diagnose the disorder.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsSymptoms of delirium usually begin over a few hours or a few days. They typically occur with a medical problem. Symptoms often come and go during the day. There may be periods of no symptoms. Symptoms tend to be worse at night when it's dark and things look less familiar. They also tend to be worse in settings that aren't familiar, such as in a hospital.
Primary symptoms include the following.
Reduced awareness of surroundingsThis may result in:

Trouble focusing on a topic or changing topics
Getting stuck on an idea rather than responding to questions
Being easily distracted
Being withdrawn, with little or no activity or little response to surroundings

Poor thinking skillsThis may appear as:

Poor memory, such as forgetting recent events
Not knowing where they are or who they are
Trouble with speech or recalling words
Rambling or nonsense speech
Trouble understanding speech
Trouble reading or writing

Behavior and emotional changesThese may include:

Anxiety, fear or distrust of others
Depression
A short temper or anger
A sense of feeling elated
Lack of interest and emotion
Quick changes in mood
Personality changes
Seeing things that others don't see
Being restless, anxious or combative
Calling out, moaning or making other sounds
Being quiet and withdrawn — especially in older adults
Slowed movement or being sluggish
Changes in sleep habits
A switched night-day sleep-wake cycle

Types of deliriumExperts have identified three types:

Hyperactive delirium. This may be the easiest type to recognize. People with this type may be restless and pace the room. They also may be anxious, have rapid mood swings or see things that aren't there. People with this type often resist care.
Hypoactive delirium. People with this type may be inactive or have reduced activity. They tend to be sluggish or drowsy. They might seem to be in a daze. They don't interact with family or others.
Mixed delirium. Symptoms involve both types of delirium. The person may quickly switch back and forth from being restless and sluggish.

Delirium and dementiaDelirium and dementia may be hard to tell apart, and a person may have both. Someone with dementia has a gradual decline of memory and other thinking skills due to damage or loss of brain cells. The most common cause of dementia is Alzheimer's disease, which comes on slowly over months or years.
Delirium often occurs in people with dementia. However, episodes of delirium don't always mean a person has dementia. Tests for dementia shouldn't be done during a delirium episode because the results could be misleading.
Some differences between the symptoms of delirium and dementia include:

Onset. The onset of delirium occurs within a short time — within a day or two. Dementia usually begins with minor symptoms that get worse over time.
Attention. The ability to stay focused or maintain focus is impaired with delirium. A person in the early stages of dementia remains generally alert. Someone with dementia often isn't sluggish or agitated.
Rapid changes in symptoms. Delirium symptoms can come and go several times during the day. While people with dementia have better and worse times of day, their memory and thinking skills typically stay at a constant level.