Short experiences of depersonalization or derealization are fairly common. But lasting and returning bouts of these symptoms can cause problems at work or school, or in other important areas of your life. During these bouts, you know that your sense of not being connected to your body or your surroundings are only feelings and not reality.
The experience and feelings of the condition can be hard to describe. Worrying about "going crazy" can cause you to become focused on checking that you exist and finding out what's real.
Symptoms usually begin in the middle or late teenage years, or in early adulthood. Depersonalization-derealization disorder is rare in children and older adults.
Depersonalization symptomsSymptoms of depersonalization include:

Feelings that you're seeing your thoughts, feelings, or body or parts of your body from the outside. For example, you may feel like you're floating in the air above yourself.
Feeling like a robot or that you're not in control of what you say or how you move.
The sense that your body, legs or arms appear twisted or like they're not the right shape. Or they may seem larger or smaller than usual. You also could feel that your head is wrapped in cotton.
Emotional or physical numbness of your senses or responses to the world around you.
A sense that your memories lack emotion, and they may or may not be your own memories.

Derealization symptomsSymptoms of derealization include:

Feeling that people and your surroundings are not real, like you're living in a movie or a dream.
Feeling emotionally disconnected from people you care about, as if you were separated by a glass wall.
Surroundings that appear out of their usual shape, or are blurry or colorless. Or they may seem like they only have two dimensions, so they're flat with no depth. Or you could be more aware of your surroundings, and they may appear clearer than usual.
Thoughts about time that are not real, such as recent events feeling like the distant past.
Unrealistic thoughts about distance and the size and shape of objects.

Bouts of depersonalization-derealization disorder may last hours, days, weeks or months. In some people, these bouts turn into ongoing feelings of depersonalization or derealization that may get better or worse at times.