Signs and symptoms — other than short stature — vary considerably across the spectrum of disorders.
Disproportionate dwarfismMost people with dwarfism have disorders that cause disproportionately short stature. Usually, this means that a person has an average-size trunk and very short limbs, but some people may have a very short trunk and shortened (but disproportionately large) limbs. In these disorders, the head is disproportionately large compared with the body.
Almost all people with disproportionate dwarfism have normal intellectual capacities. Rare exceptions are usually the result of a secondary factor, such as excess fluid around the brain (hydrocephalus).
The most common cause of dwarfism is a disorder called achondroplasia, which causes disproportionately short stature. This disorder usually results in the following:

An average-size trunk
Short arms and legs, with particularly short upper arms and upper legs
Short fingers, often with a wide separation between the middle and ring fingers
Limited mobility at the elbows
A disproportionately large head, with a prominent forehead and a flattened bridge of the nose
Progressive development of bowed legs
Progressive development of swayed lower back
An adult height around 4 feet (122 cm)

Another cause of disproportionate dwarfism is a rare disorder called spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita (SEDC). Signs may include:

A very short trunk
A short neck
Shortened arms and legs
Average-size hands and feet
Broad, rounded chest
Slightly flattened cheekbones
Opening in the roof of the mouth (cleft palate)
Hip deformities that result in thighbones turning inward
A foot that's twisted or out of shape
Instability of the neck bones
Progressive hunching curvature of the upper spine
Progressive development of swayed lower back
Vision and hearing problems
Arthritis and problems with joint movement
Adult height ranging from 3 feet (91 cm) to just over 4 feet (122 cm)

Proportionate dwarfismProportionate dwarfism results from medical conditions present at birth or appearing in early childhood that limit overall growth and development. So the head, trunk and limbs are all small, but they're proportionate to each other. Because these disorders affect overall growth, many of them result in poor development of one or more body systems.
Growth hormone deficiency is a relatively common cause of proportionate dwarfism. It occurs when the pituitary gland fails to produce an adequate supply of growth hormone, which is essential for normal childhood growth. Signs include:

Height below the third percentile on standard pediatric growth charts
Growth rate slower than expected for age
Delayed or no sexual development during the teen years