Essential tremor symptoms:

Begin gradually, and usually are more noticeable on one side of the body.
Worsen with movement.
Usually occur in the hands first, affecting one hand or both hands.
Can include a "yes-yes" or "no-no" motion of the head.
May be aggravated by emotional stress, fatigue, caffeine or temperature extremes.

Essential tremor vs. Parkinson's diseaseMany people associate tremors with Parkinson's disease, but the two conditions differ in key ways:

Timing of tremors. Essential tremor of the hands usually occurs when using the hands. Tremors from Parkinson's disease are most noticeable when the hands are at the sides of the body or resting in the lap.
Associated conditions. Essential tremor doesn't cause other health problems, but Parkinson's disease is associated with stooped posture, slow movement and dragging the feet when walking. However, people with essential tremor sometimes develop other neurological signs and symptoms, such as an unsteady walk.
Parts of the body affected. Essential tremor mainly involves the hands, head and voice. Parkinson's disease tremors usually start in the hands, and can affect the legs, chin and other parts of the body.

Request an appointment







                 
            




There is a problem with
                                information submitted for this request. Review/update the
                                information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
                        
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.












Email



 Address 1



ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email address

Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.

To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which
                                information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with
                                other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, this could
                                include protected health information. If we combine this information with your protected
                                health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health
                                information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of
                                privacy practices. You may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on
                                the unsubscribe link in the e-mail.


Subscribe!




Thank you for subscribing!

You'll soon start receiving the latest Mayo Clinic health information you requested in your inbox.


Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes

Retry