The severity of fetal alcohol syndrome symptoms varies. Some children have far greater problems than others do. Symptoms of fetal alcohol syndrome may include any mix of issues with how the body develops; thinking, learning and behavior; and functioning and coping in daily life.
Physical development issuesHow the body develops may include:

Facial features that are typical of fetal alcohol syndrome. These may include small eyes, a very thin upper lip, a flat nose bridge, and a smooth skin surface between the nose and upper lip.
Slow physical growth before and after birth.
Delayed development, including taking longer to reach milestones, such as sitting, talking and walking.
Vision or hearing problems.
Smaller than average head and brain size.
Changes with how the heart, kidneys and bones develop.
Poor coordination or balance.
Being jittery or hyperactive.

Learning and thinking issuesLearning and thinking may include:

Intellectual disability and learning disorders, including trouble with memory, learning new things, focusing and thinking.
Not understanding the results of choices made.
Poor judgment skills, such as having a hard time thinking through issues, problem-solving, reasoning and making decisions that affect everyday life.
Short attention span that affects staying with a task and finishing.
Poor concept of time, that impacts following schedules, knowing what time to leave in order to arrive on time and understanding how long a task will take.
Trouble with organizing and planning or working toward a goal, including trouble understanding and following directions.

Social and behavioral issuesFunctioning in everyday life, coping and interacting with others may include:

Challenges in school with attendance, learning, behavior and interacting with others.
Trouble getting along with others, including struggling with communication and social skills.
Trouble adapting to change or switching from one task to another.
Issues with behavior and with controlling emotions and actions.
Problems managing life skills, such as telling time, self care, managing money and staying safe.
Being easily influenced by others or taken advantage of.
Quickly changing moods.