often show up again after the first outbreak. Medicine can ease symptoms. It also lowers the risk of infecting others. Condoms can help prevent the spread of a genital herpes infection.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health Book





Symptoms




	    Genital herpes
	    Enlarge image









Close



Genital herpes


Genital herpes
Sores associated with genital herpes can be small bumps, blisters or open sores. Scabs eventually form and the sores heal, but they tend to recur.





Most people infected with HSV don't know they have it. They may have no symptoms or have very mild symptoms.
Symptoms start about 2 to 12 days after exposure to the virus. They may include:

Pain or itching around the genitals
Small bumps or blisters around the genitals, anus or mouth
Painful ulcers that form when blisters rupture and ooze or bleed
Scabs that form as the ulcers heal
Painful urination
Discharge from the urethra, the tube that releases urine from the body
Discharge from the vagina

During the first outbreak, you may commonly have flu-like symptoms such as:

Fever
Headache
Body aches
Swollen lymph nodes in the groin

Differences in symptom locationSores appear where the infection enters the body. You can spread the infection by touching a sore and then rubbing or scratching another area of your body. That includes your fingers or eyes.
Sore can develop on or in the:

Buttocks
Thighs
Rectum
Anus
Mouth
Urethra
Vulva
Vagina
Cervix
Penis
Scrotum

Repeat outbreaksAfter the first outbreak of genital herpes, symptoms often appear again. These are called recurrent outbreaks or recurrent episodes.
How often recurrent outbreaks happen varies widely. You'll usually have the most outbreaks the first year after infection. They may appear less often over time. Your symptoms during recurrent outbreaks usually don't last as long and aren't as severe as the first.
You may have warning signs a few hours or days before a new outbreak starts. These are called prodromal symptoms. They include:

Genital pain
Tingling or shooting pain in the legs, hips or buttocks