Male reproductive system
	    Enlarge image









Close



Male reproductive system


Male reproductive system
The male reproductive system makes, stores and moves sperm. The testicles produce sperm. Fluid from the seminal vesicles and prostate gland combines with sperm to make semen. The penis ejaculates semen during sexual intercourse.










	    Female reproductive system
	    Enlarge image









Close



Female reproductive system


Female reproductive system
The ovaries, fallopian tubes, uterus, cervix and vagina (vaginal canal) make up the female reproductive system.





In many people, gonorrhea infection causes no symptoms. If there are symptoms, they often affect the genital tract, but also may occur in other places.
Gonorrhea affecting the genital tractMale symptoms of gonorrhea infection include:

Painful urination.
Pus-like discharge from the tip of the penis.
Pain or swelling in one testicle.

Female symptoms of gonorrhea infection include:

Increased vaginal discharge.
Painful urination.
Vaginal bleeding between periods, such as after vaginal intercourse.
Abdominal or pelvic pain.

Gonorrhea at other sites in the bodyGonorrhea also can affect these parts of the body:

Rectum. Symptoms include anal itching, pus-like discharge from the rectum, spots of bright red blood on toilet tissue and having to strain during bowel movements.
Eyes. Gonorrhea that affects the eyes can cause eye pain, sensitivity to light, and pus-like discharge from one or both eyes.
Throat. Symptoms of a throat infection might include a sore throat and swollen lymph nodes in the neck.
Joints. If one or more joints become infected by the affected joints might be warm, red, swollen and extremely painful, especially during movement. This condition is known as septic arthritis.

When to see your doctorMake an appointment with your healthcare professional if you notice symptoms such as a burning sensation when you urinate or a pus-like discharge from your penis, vagina or rectum.
Also make an appointment if your partner has been diagnosed with gonorrhea. You might not have symptoms, but if you have the infection, you can reinfect your partner even after your partner has been treated for gonorrhea.
Request an appointment







                 
            




There is a problem with
                                information submitted for this request. Review/update the
                                information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
                        
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.












Email



 Address 1



ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email address

Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.

To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which
                                information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with
                                other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, this could
                                include protected health information. If we combine this information with your protected
                                health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health
                                information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of
                                privacy practices. You may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on
                                the unsubscribe link in the e-mail.


Subscribe!




Thank you for subscribing!

You'll soon start receiving the latest Mayo Clinic health information you requested in your inbox.


Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes

Retry