The symptoms of HIV and AIDS vary depending on the person and the phase of infection.
Primary infection, also called acute HIVSome people infected by HIV get a flu-like illness within 2 to 4 weeks after the virus enters the body. This stage may last a few days to several weeks. Some people have no symptoms during this stage.
Possible symptoms include:

Fever.
Headache.
Muscle aches and joint pain.
Rash.
Sore throat and painful mouth sores.
Swollen lymph glands, also called nodes, mainly on the neck.
Diarrhea.
Weight loss.
Cough.
Night sweats.

These symptoms can be so mild that you might not notice them. However, the amount of virus in your bloodstream, called viral load, is high at this time. As a result, the infection spreads to others more easily during primary infection than during the next stage.
Clinical latent infection, also called chronic HIVIn this stage of infection, HIV is still in the body and cells of the immune system, called white blood cells. But during this time, many people don't have symptoms or the infections that HIV can cause.
This stage can last for many years for people who aren't getting antiretroviral therapy, also called ART. Some people get more-severe disease much sooner.
Symptomatic HIV infectionAs the virus continues to multiply and destroy immune cells, you may get mild infections or long-term symptoms such as:

Fever.
Fatigue.
Swollen lymph glands, which are often one of the first symptoms of HIV infection.
Diarrhea.
Weight loss.
Oral yeast infection, also called thrush.
Shingles, also called herpes zoster.
Pneumonia.

Progression to AIDSBetter antiviral treatments have greatly decreased deaths from AIDS worldwide. Thanks to these lifesaving treatments, most people with HIV in the U.S. today don't get AIDS. Untreated, HIV most often turns into AIDS in about 8 to 10 years.
Having AIDS means your immune system is very damaged. People with AIDS are more likely to develop diseases they wouldn't get if they had healthy immune systems. These are called opportunistic infections or opportunistic cancers. Some people get opportunistic infections during the acute stage of the disease.
The symptoms of some of these infections may include:

Sweats.
Chills.
Fever that keeps coming back.
Ongoing diarrhea.
Swollen lymph glands.
Constant white spots or lesions on the tongue or in the mouth.
Constant fatigue.
Weakness.
Rapid weight loss.
Skin rashes or bumps.