The first symptoms of hoarding disorder often appear during the teenage to early adult years. You may get and save too many items, gradually build up clutter in living spaces, and have difficulty getting rid of things.
As you grow older, you may continue getting and holding onto things that you may never use and don't have space for. By middle age, the clutter can become overwhelming as symptoms become more severe and increasingly difficult to treat.
Problems with hoarding gradually develop over time and tend to be a private behavior. You may avoid having family, friends or repair workers in your home. Often, major clutter has developed by the time it reaches the attention of others.
Symptoms of hoarding disorder may include:

Getting and keeping too many items that you may not have a need for right now and don't have space for.
Ongoing difficulty throwing out or parting with your things, regardless of their actual value.
Feeling a need to save these items and being upset by the thought of getting rid of them.
Building up clutter to the point where you can't use rooms.
Trying to be perfect and avoiding or delaying decisions.
Problems with planning and organizing.

Getting too many items and refusing to part with them results in:

Disorganized piles or stacks of items, such as newspapers, clothes, paperwork, books or sentimental items.
Items that crowd and clutter your walking spaces and living areas. Rooms can't be used for the intended purpose, such as not being able to sleep in your bed.
Buildup of food or trash to large, unsanitary levels.
Distress or problems functioning or keeping yourself, others and pets safe in your home.
Conflict with others who try to reduce or remove clutter from your home.
Relationship issues, avoiding social activities and employment problems.
Difficulty organizing items and sometimes losing important items in the clutter.

With hoarding disorder, items are usually saved because:

You believe these items are unique or that you'll need them at some point in the future.
You feel emotionally connected to items that remind you of happier times or represent beloved people or pets.
You feel safe and comforted when surrounded by things.
You don't want to waste anything.

Hoarding disorder is different from collecting. People who have collections, such as stamps or model cars, carefully search out specific items, organize them and display their collections. Collections can be large, but they aren't usually cluttered. Also, they don't cause the distress and problems functioning that are part of hoarding disorder.
Hoarding animalsPeople who hoard animals may collect dozens or even hundreds of pets. Animals may be confined inside or outside. Because of the large numbers, these animals often aren't cared for properly. The health and safety of the person and the animals are often at risk because of unsanitary conditions.