Huntington's disease usually causes movement disorders. It also causes mental health conditions and trouble with thinking and planning. These conditions can cause a wide spectrum of symptoms. The first symptoms vary greatly from person to person. Some symptoms appear to be worse or have a greater effect on functional ability. These symptoms may change in severity throughout the course of the disease.
Movement disordersThe movement disorders related to Huntington's disease may cause movements that can't be controlled, called chorea. Chorea are involuntary movements affecting all the muscles of the body, specifically the arms and legs, the face and the tongue. They also can affect the ability to make voluntary movements. Symptoms may include:

Involuntary jerking or writhing movements.
Muscle rigidity or muscle contracture.
Slow or unusual eye movements.
Trouble walking or keeping posture and balance.
Trouble with speech or swallowing.

People with Huntington's disease also may not be able to control voluntary movements. This can have a greater impact than the involuntary movements caused by the disease. Having trouble with voluntary movements can affect a person's ability to work, perform daily activities, communicate and remain independent.
Cognitive conditionsHuntington's disease often causes trouble with cognitive skills. These symptoms may include:

Trouble organizing, prioritizing or focusing on tasks.
Lack of flexibility or getting stuck on a thought, behavior or action, known as perseveration.
Lack of impulse control that can result in outbursts, acting without thinking and sexual promiscuity.
Lack of awareness of one's own behaviors and abilities.
Slowness in processing thoughts or ''finding'' words.
Trouble learning new information.

Mental health conditionsThe most common mental health condition associated with Huntington's disease is depression. This isn't simply a reaction to receiving a diagnosis of Huntington's disease. Instead, depression appears to occur because of damage to the brain and changes in brain function. Symptoms may include:

Irritability, sadness or apathy.
Social withdrawal.
Trouble sleeping.
Fatigue and loss of energy.
Thoughts of death, dying or suicide.

Other common mental health conditions include:

Obsessive-compulsive disorder, a condition marked by intrusive thoughts that keep coming back and by behaviors repeated over and over.
Mania, which can cause elevated mood, overactivity, impulsive behavior and inflated self-esteem.
Bipolar disorder, a condition with alternating episodes of depression and mania.

Weight loss also is common in people with Huntington's disease, especially as the disease gets worse.
Symptoms of juvenile Huntington's diseaseIn younger people, Huntington's disease begins and progresses slightly differently than it does in adults. Symptoms that may appear early in the course of the disease include:
Behavioral changes

Trouble paying attention.
Sudden drop in overall school performance.
Behavioral issues, such as being aggressive or disruptive.

Physical changes

Contracted and rigid muscles that affect walking, especially in young children.
Slight movements that can't be controlled, known as tremors.
Frequent falls or clumsiness.
Seizures.