depend on which hormones are missing.
People who have hypopituitarism usually need to take medicines for the rest of their lives. These medicines replace the missing hormones, which helps control symptoms.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsThe symptoms of hypopituitarism usually start slowly and get worse over time. They might not be noticed for months or even years. But for some people, symptoms start suddenly.
Symptoms of hypopituitarism vary from person to person. Symptoms depend on what hormones are missing and how little of the hormone is being made. There might be more than one hormone that's low. A second hormone deficiency might increase the symptoms of the first one. Or sometimes, it might hide those symptoms.
Growth hormone (GH) deficiencyIn children, GH deficiency can cause growth problems and short stature. Most adults who have GH deficiency don't have symptoms. But some adults have:

Fatigue.
Muscle weakness.
Changes in body fat.
Loss of interest in activities.
Lack of social contacts.

Luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) deficiencyA lack of these hormones, called gonadotropins, affects the reproductive system.
The lack of hormones keeps the ovaries from making enough eggs and estrogen. It keeps the testicles from making enough sperm and testosterone. This can lower sex drive and cause tiredness. It also can make it hard or impossible to have children — a condition called infertility. In children, the physical changes to an adult body, known as puberty, may not occur or may be late.
Some people might have symptoms such as:

Hot flashes.
Irregular periods or no periods.
Loss of pubic hair.
Not being able to make milk for breastfeeding.
Not being able to get or keep an erection, known as erectile dysfunction.
Decreased facial or body hair.
Mood changes.
Fatigue.

Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) deficiencyThis hormone controls the thyroid gland. Too little TSH leads to low levels of thyroid hormones. This condition is called hypothyroidism. It causes symptoms such as:

Tiredness.
Weight gain.
Dry skin.
Constipation.
Sensitivity to cold or trouble staying warm.

Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) deficiencyThis hormone helps the adrenal glands work correctly. It also helps the body react to stress. Symptoms of ACTH deficiency include:

Severe tiredness.
Low blood pressure.
Many and lasting infections.
Nausea, vomiting or abdominal pain.
Confusion.

Anti-diuretic hormone (ADH) deficiencyThis hormone, which also is called vasopressin, helps the body balance its fluid levels. An ADH deficiency can lead to a disorder called diabetes insipidus, which can cause:

Urinating more than usual.
Extreme thirst.
Imbalances in minerals such as sodium and potassium, known as electrolytes.

Prolactin deficiencyProlactin is the hormone that tells the body when to start making breast milk. Low levels of prolactin can cause problems with making milk for breastfeeding.