include cramping, abdominal pain, bloating, gas, and diarrhea or constipation, or both. IBS is a chronic condition that you'll need to manage long term.
Only a small number of people with IBS have severe symptoms. Some people can control their symptoms by managing diet, lifestyle and stress. More-severe symptoms can be treated with medication and counseling.
IBS doesn't cause changes in bowel tissue or increase your risk of colorectal cancer.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic on Digestive HealthNutritional Supplements at Mayo Clinic StoreShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsSymptoms of IBS vary but are usually present for a long time. The most common include:

Abdominal pain, cramping or bloating that is related to passing a bowel movement
Changes in appearance of bowel movement
Changes in how often you are having a bowel movement

Other symptoms that are often related include sensation of incomplete evacuation and increased gas or mucus in the stool.

Video: How irritable bowel syndrome affects you







Show transcript for video Video: How irritable bowel syndrome affects you

IBS is a functional disorder. Even though the digestive tract looks normal, it doesn't function as it should. Muscles in the intestines move food from the stomach to the rectum. Normally, they contract and relax in a gentle rhythm that moves the food along in a fairly predictable schedule. But with some people, the muscles in the intestines spasm. That means the contractions are longer and stronger than normal. Those spasms are painful. They also disrupt the movement of food through the intestines. If they slow it down, you become constipated. If they cause it to move through too quickly, you get diarrhea. It's not unusual for people to alternate between the two. Another cause of discomfort for people with IBS results from oversensitive nerve endings in the digestive tract. Small bubbles of gas that wouldn't bother most people might be quite painful for you. Your heightened sensitivity can also lead to swelling and bloating.