A tumor is an abnormal growth or mass of tissue. A cyst is a lesion that contains liquid or semisolid material. Examples of jaw tumors and cysts include:

Ameloblastoma. This rare, usually noncancerous (benign) tumor begins in the cells that form the protective enamel lining on the teeth. It develops most often in the jaw near the molars. The most common type is aggressive, forming large tumors and growing into the jawbone. Although this tumor can recur after treatment, aggressive surgical treatment will typically reduce the chance of recurrence.
Central giant cell granuloma. Central giant cell granulomas are benign lesions that grow from bone cells. They most often occur in the front portion of the lower jaw. One type of these tumors can grow rapidly, cause pain and destroy bone, and has a tendency to recur after surgical treatment. The other type is less aggressive and may not have symptoms. Rarely, a tumor may shrink or resolve on its own, but typically these tumors require surgical treatment.
Dentigerous cyst. This cyst originates from tissue that surrounds a tooth before it erupts into the mouth. This is the most common form of cyst that affects the jaws. Most often these cysts will occur around wisdom teeth that are not fully erupted, but they can also involve other teeth.
Odontogenic keratocyst. This cyst is also referred to as a keratocystic odontogenic tumor because of its tumorlike tendency to recur after surgical treatment. Although this cyst is typically slow growing, it can still be destructive to the jaw and teeth if left untreated over a long period of time. Most often the cyst develops in the lower jaw near the third molars. These cysts may also be found in people with an inherited condition called nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome.
Odontogenic myxoma. This is a rare, slow-growing, benign tumor that occurs most often in the lower jaw. The tumor can be large and aggressively invade the jaw and surrounding tissue and displace teeth. Odontogenic myxomas are known to recur after surgical treatment; however, the chances of tumor recurrence are typically lessened by more-aggressive forms of surgical treatment.
Odontoma. This benign tumor is the most common odontogenic tumor. Odontomas often have no symptoms, but they may interfere with tooth development or eruption. Odontomas are made up of dental tissue that grows around a tooth in the jaw. They can resemble an oddly shaped tooth or can be a small or large calcified tumor. These tumors may be part of some genetic syndromes.
Other types of cysts and tumors. These include adenomatoid odontogenic tumor, calcifying epithelial odontogenic tumor, glandular odontogenic cyst, squamous odontogenic tumor, calcifying odontogenic cyst, cementoblastoma, aneurysmal bone cyst, ossifying fibroma, osteoblastoma. central odontogenic fibroma and others.