Lewy body dementia symptoms can include:

Visual hallucinations. Seeing things that aren't there, known as hallucinations, might be one of the first symptoms of Lewy body dementia. This symptom often occurs regularly. People with Lewy body dementia might see shapes, animals or people that aren't there. Hallucinations involving sounds, smells or touch are possible.
Movement disorders. Signs of Parkinson's disease, known as parkinsonian signs, may occur. These symptoms include slowed movement, rigid muscles, tremor or a shuffling walk. This can cause the person to fall.
Poor regulation of body functions. The part of the nervous system that controls automatic functions is called the autonomic nervous system. Lewy body dementia can affect how well the autonomic nervous system controls blood pressure, heart rate, sweating and digestion. This can result in sudden drops in blood pressure upon standing, dizziness, falls, loss of bladder control and bowel issues such as constipation.
Cognitive problems. People with Lewy body dementia might have thinking problems similar to those of Alzheimer's disease. They may include confusion, poor attention, visual-spatial problems and memory loss.
Trouble with sleep. People with Lewy body dementia can have rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder. This disorder causes people to physically act out their dreams while asleep. People with REM sleep behavior disorder may punch, kick, yell or scream while sleeping.
Varying attention. Episodes of drowsiness, long periods of staring into space, long naps during the day or disorganized speech are possible.
Depression. People with Lewy body dementia might develop depression.
Apathy. Loss of motivation may occur.

Request an appointment







                 
            




There is a problem with
                                information submitted for this request. Review/update the
                                information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
                        
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.












Email



 Address 1



ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email address

Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.

To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which
                                information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with
                                other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, this could
                                include protected health information. If we combine this information with your protected
                                health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health
                                information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of
                                privacy practices. You may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on
                                the unsubscribe link in the e-mail.


Subscribe!




Thank you for subscribing!

You'll soon start receiving the latest Mayo Clinic health information you requested in your inbox.


Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes

Retry