A tick bite may look like as a tiny, itchy bump on your skin, much like a mosquito bite. This doesn't mean you have a tick-borne disease. Many people will not notice they've had a tick bite.
The symptoms of Lyme disease vary. They usually show up in stages. But the stages can overlap. And some people don't have symptoms of the typical early stage.
Stage 1




	    Lyme disease rash
	    Enlarge image









Close



Lyme disease rash


Lyme disease rash
Illustration of Lyme disease rash on different skin colors. People with Lyme disease might get a bull's-eye rash. The rash gradually spreads over a period of days.





Early symptoms of Lyme disease usually happen within 3 to 30 days after a tick bite. This stage of disease has a limited set of symptoms. This is called early localized disease.
A rash is a common sign of Lyme disease. But it doesn't always happen. The rash is usually a single circle that slowly spreads from the site of the tick bite. It may become clear in the center and look like a target or bull's-eye. The rash often feels warm to the touch, But it's usually not painful or itchy.
Other stage 1 symptoms include:

Fever.
Headache.
Extreme tiredness.
Joint stiffness.
Muscle aches and pains.
Swollen lymph nodes.

Stage 2Without treatment, Lyme disease can get worse.  The symptoms often show up within 3 to 10 weeks after a tick bite. Stage 2 is often more serious and widespread. It is called early disseminated disease.
Stage 2 may include the stage 1 symptoms and the following:

Many rashes on other parts of the body.
Neck pain or stiffness.
Muscle weakness on one or both sides of the face.
Immune-system activity in heart tissue that causes irregular heartbeats.
Pain that starts from the back and hips and spreads to the legs.
Pain, numbness or weakness in the hands or feet.
Painful swelling in tissues of the eye or eyelid.
Immune-system activity in eye nerves that causes pain or vision loss.

Stage 3In the third stage, you may have symptoms from the earlier stages and other symptoms. This stage is called late disseminated disease.
In the United States, the most common condition of this stage is arthritis in large joints, particularly the knees. Pain, swelling or stiffness may last for a long time. Or the symptoms may come and go. Stage 3 symptoms usually begin 2 to 12 months after a tick bite.
The type of Lyme disease common in Europe can cause a skin condition called acrodermatitis chronic atrophicans. The skin on the backs of the hands and tops of the feet get discolored and swell. It also may show up over the elbows and knees. More-serious cases may cause damage to tissues or joints.
This skin condition may show up many months to many years after a tick bite.