The typical mole is a small brown spot. But moles come in different colors, shapes and sizes:

Color and texture. Moles can be brown, tan, black, blue, red or pink. They can be smooth, wrinkled, flat or raised. They may have hair growing from them.
Shape. Most moles are oval or round.
Size. Moles are typically less than 1/4 inch (about 6 mm) in diameter — the size of a pencil eraser. Those present at birth, known as congenital nevi, can be bigger and cover part of the face, trunk or a limb.

Moles can grow anywhere on your body, including your scalp and armpits, as well as under your nails and between your fingers and toes. Most people have 10 to 45 moles. Many of these moles occur by age 40. Moles may change or fade away over time. They may become darker and larger with hormonal changes that occur during the teenage years and while pregnant.
Clusters of brown spots around the eyes, cheeks and nose are dermatoses papulosa nigra — a type of seborrheic keratosis that is noncancerous and appears as waxy brown, black or tan growths. They aren't clusters of pigment-forming cells, known as nevi. Dermatoses papulosa nigra are more common among Black women. These lesions don't carry a risk of melanoma, but they can be treated as a cosmetic concern.
Unusual moles that may indicate melanomaA mole may be a sign of skin cancer if it has irregular borders or an asymmetrical shape, or if it changes in color, shape, size or height. This ABCDE guide can help you remember what to watch for: 

A is for asymmetrical shape. One half is unlike the other half.
B is for border. Look for moles with irregular, notched or scalloped borders.
C is for changes in color. Look for growths that have changed color, have many colors or have uneven color.
D is for diameter. Look for new growth in a mole larger than 1/4 inch (about 6 mm).
E is for evolving. Watch for moles that change in size, shape, color or height. Also, new symptoms can arise, such as itchiness or bleeding.

Cancerous moles, also known as malignant moles, vary greatly in how they look. Some may show all of the changes listed above. Others may have only one or two unusual traits.