Multiple system atrophy (MSA) symptoms affect many parts of the body. Symptoms start in adulthood, usually in the 50s or 60s.
There are two types of MSA: parkinsonian and cerebellar. The type depends on the symptoms a person has when diagnosed.
Parkinsonian typeThis is the most common type of MSA. Symptoms are similar to those of Parkinson's disease, such as:

Stiff muscles.
Trouble bending the arms and legs.
Slow movement, known as bradykinesia.
Tremors at rest or when moving the arms or legs.
Slurred, slow or soft speech, known as dysarthria.
Trouble with posture and balance.

Cerebellar typeThe main symptoms of the cerebellar type involve poor muscle coordination, known as ataxia. Symptoms may include:

Trouble with movement and coordination. This includes loss of balance and not being able to walk steadily.
Slurred, slow or soft speech, known as dysarthria.
Changes in vision. This may include blurred or double vision and not being able to focus the eyes.
Trouble chewing or swallowing, known as dysphagia.

General symptomsFor both types of multiple system atrophy, the autonomic nervous system doesn't work properly. The autonomic nervous system controls involuntary functions in the body, such as blood pressure. When this system doesn't work properly, it can cause the following symptoms.
Postural hypotension, also known as orthostatic hypotension
Postural hypotension is a form of low blood pressure. People who have this type of low blood pressure feel dizzy or lightheaded when they stand up after sitting or lying down. They may even faint. Not everyone with MSA has postural hypotension.
People with MSA also can develop dangerously high blood pressure levels while lying down. This is called supine hypertension.
Urinary and bowel symptoms
These symptoms include:

Constipation.
Loss of bladder or bowel control, known as incontinence.

Changes in sweat production
People with multiple system atrophy may:

Produce less sweat.
Have heat intolerance because they sweat less.
Have poor body temperature control, often causing cold hands or feet.

Conditions that affect sleep
Sleep symptoms may include:

Agitated sleep due to "acting out" dreams. This is known as rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder.
Breathing that stops and starts during sleep, known as sleep apnea.
A high-pitched whistling sound while breathing, called stridor.

Sexual symptoms
These symptoms may include:

Trouble getting or keeping an erection, known as erectile dysfunction.
Trouble with lubrication during sex and having an orgasm.
Loss of interest in sex.

Cardiovascular symptoms
MSA may cause:

Color changes in the hands and feet.

Psychiatric symptoms
People with multiple system atrophy also may experience:

Trouble controlling emotions, such as laughing or crying when not expected.