Obsessive-compulsive disorder usually includes both obsessions and compulsions. But it's also possible to have only obsession symptoms or only compulsion symptoms. You may or may not know that your obsessions and compulsions are beyond reason. But they take up a great deal of time, reduce your quality of life, and get in the way of your daily routines and responsibilities.
Obsession symptomsOCD obsessions are lasting and unwanted thoughts that keeping coming back or urges or images that are intrusive and cause distress or anxiety. You might try to ignore them or get rid of them by acting based on ritual. These obsessions usually intrude when you're trying to think of or do other things.
Obsessions often have themes, such as:

Fear of contamination or dirt.
Doubting and having a hard time dealing with uncertainty.
Needing things to be orderly and balanced.
Aggressive or horrific thoughts about losing control and harming yourself or others.
Unwanted thoughts, including aggression, or sexual or religious subjects.

Examples of obsession symptoms include:

Fear of being contaminated by touching objects others have touched.
Doubts that you've locked the door or turned off the stove.
Intense stress when objects aren't orderly or facing a certain way.
Images of driving your car into a crowd of people.
Thoughts about shouting obscenities or not acting the right way in public.
Unpleasant sexual images.
Staying away from situations that can cause obsessions, such as shaking hands.

Compulsion symptomsOCD compulsions are repetitive behaviors that you feel driven to do. These repetitive behaviors or mental acts are meant to reduce anxiety related to your obsessions or prevent something bad from happening. But taking part in the compulsions brings no pleasure and may offer only limited relief from anxiety.
You may make up rules or rituals to follow that help control your anxiety when you're having obsessive thoughts. These compulsions are beyond reason and often don't relate to the issue they're intended to fix.
As with obsessions, compulsions usually have themes, such as:

Washing and cleaning.
Checking.
Counting.
Ordering.
Following a strict routine.
Demanding reassurance.

Examples of compulsion symptoms include:

Hand-washing until your skin becomes raw.
Checking doors over and over again to make sure they're locked.
Checking the stove over and over again to make sure it's off.
Counting in certain patterns.
Silently repeating a prayer, word or phrase.
Trying to replace a bad thought with a good thought.
Arranging your canned goods to face the same way.

Severity variesOCD usually begins in the teen or young adult years, but it can start in childhood. Symptoms usually begin over time and tend to vary in how serious they are throughout life. The types of obsessions and compulsions you have also can change over time. Symptoms generally get worse when you are under greater stress, including times of transition and change. OCD, usually thought to be a lifelong disorder, can have mild to moderate symptoms or be so severe and time-consuming that it becomes disabling.