can usually be managed, but people who have oral lichen planus need regular monitoring because they may be at risk of developing mouth cancer in the affected areas.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsSigns and symptoms of oral lichen planus affect the mucous membranes of the mouth.
AppearanceThe lesions may appear as:

Lacy, white, raised patches of tissues
Red, swollen, tender patches of tissues
Open sores

LocationThese lesions may appear on the:

Inside of the cheeks, the most common location
Gums
Tongue
Inner tissues of the lips
Palate

Pain or discomfortThe white, lacy patches may not cause discomfort when they appear on the inside of the cheeks. However, symptoms accompanying red, swollen patches and open sores may include:

Burning sensation or pain
Sensitivity to hot, acidic or spicy foods
Bleeding and irritation with tooth brushing
Inflammation of the gums (gingivitis)
Painful, thickened patches on the tongue
Discomfort when speaking, chewing or swallowing

Other types of lichen planusIf you have oral lichen planus, you may have lichen planus lesions affecting other parts of your body.

Skin. Lesions usually appear as purplish, flat-topped bumps that are often itchy.
Genitals. Lesions on the female genitalia often cause pain or burning and discomfort with intercourse. The lesions are usually red and eroded and occasionally appear as white areas. Lesions can also occur on male genitalia.
Ears. Lichen planus of the ears can lead to hearing loss.
Scalp. When skin lesions appear on the scalp, they may cause temporary or permanent hair loss.
Nails. Though rare, lichen planus of the toenails or fingernails may result in ridges on the nails, thinning or splitting of nails, and temporary or permanent nail loss.
Eyes. Rarely, lichen planus may involve the mucous membrane surfaces of the eyes, and can cause scarring and blindness.
Esophagus. Lichen planus of the esophagus is rare, but when it occurs, it may result in a narrowing of the esophagus or the formation of tightened, ringlike bands in the esophagus that can make swallowing difficult.