start slowly. The first symptom may be a barely noticeable tremor in just one hand or sometimes a foot or the jaw. Tremor is common in Parkinson's disease. But the disorder also may cause stiffness, slowing of movement and trouble with balance that raises the risk of falls.
In the early stages of Parkinson's disease, your face may show little or no expression. Your arms may not swing when you walk. Your speech may become soft or slurred. Symptoms get worse over time.
Although Parkinson's disease can't be cured, medicines may help symptoms get better. Sometimes a healthcare professional may suggest surgery to help control parts of the brain. This surgery may help lessen symptoms.Products & ServicesNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital Edition





SymptomsParkinson's disease symptoms can be different for everyone. Early symptoms may be mild, and you may not even notice them. Symptoms often begin on one side of the body, then affect both sides. Symptoms are usually worse on one side than the other. Some Parkinson's disease symptoms are similar to those of other disorders.
Parkinson's symptoms may include:

Tremor. This rhythmic shaking usually begins in the hands or fingers. Sometimes tremor begins in the foot or jaw. You may rub your thumb and forefinger back and forth. This is known as a pill-rolling tremor. Your hand may tremble when it's at rest or when you're under stress. You may notice that you shake less when you're doing some sort of task or moving around.
Slowed movement, also called bradykinesia. Parkinson's disease may slow your movement, making simple tasks more difficult. It may be hard to get out of a chair, shower or get dressed. You may have less expression in your face. It may be hard to blink.
Rigid muscles. You may have stiff muscles in any part of your body. Your muscles may feel tense and painful, and your arm movements may be short and jerky.
Poor posture and balance. Your posture may become stooped. You may fall or have balance problems.
Loss of automatic movements. You may be less able to make certain movements that you typically do without thinking, including blinking, smiling or swinging your arms when you walk.
Speech changes. You may speak softly or quickly, slur, or hesitate before talking. Your speech may be flat or monotone, without typical speech patterns.
Writing changes. You may have trouble writing, and your writing may appear cramped and small.
Nonmotor symptoms. These may include depression, anxiety, constipation and sleep problems. They also may include acting out dreams, needing to urinate often, trouble smelling, problems with thinking and memory, and feeling very tired.