Sometimes, pelvic organ prolapse has no symptoms. When symptoms happen, they might include:

Seeing or feeling a bulge of tissue at or beyond the opening of the vagina.
Pelvic pressure, heaviness or pain.
Lower back pain.
Not being able to keep in a tampon.
Urinary changes. These might include urinating more, feeling an urgent need to urinate, not being able to empty the bladder all the way or having a weak urine stream.
Bowel changes, such as not emptying stool all the way or having to put fingers in the vagina to support the bulge to be able to pass stool. This is called splinting.
Sexual issues, such as pain with sex.

Weakness of the pelvic floor often affects more than one area. For instance, if one of your pelvic organs is prolapsed, you're more likely to have another type of pelvic organ prolapse.
Request an appointment







                 
            




There is a problem with
                                information submitted for this request. Review/update the
                                information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

Get the latest health information from Mayo Clinic delivered to your inbox.
                        
Subscribe for free and receive your in-depth guide to
                            digestive health, plus the latest on health innovations and news. You can unsubscribe at any
                            time. Click here for an email preview.

Email address














ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email address



Address 1




Subscribe

Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.

To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which
                                information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with
                                other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, this could
                                include protected health information. If we combine this information with your protected
                                health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health
                                information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of
                                privacy practices. You may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on
                                the unsubscribe link in the e-mail.




Thank you for subscribing



































Your in-depth digestive health guide will be in your inbox shortly. You will also receive
                                emails from Mayo Clinic on the latest health news, research, and care.
If you don’t receive our email within 5 minutes, check your SPAM folder, then contact us
                                at newsletters@mayoclinic.com.


Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes

Retry