of NF1 include color changes and benign tumors on the skin. Some people who have NF1 develop other conditions. These conditions include bone deformities, such as a curved spine, and an eye nerve tumor called an optic glioma. People with NF1 are at risk of developing a malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor.

Perineurioma. This rare benign peripheral nerve tumor arises from perineurial cells, a type of cell that surrounds the peripheral nerve sheath. A perineurioma can form within a nerve, called an intraneural perineurioma. It may also form in soft next to a nerve, called an extraneural perineurioma. An intraneural perineurioma happens most often in children and young adults. It typically causes gradually progressive weakness and loss of feeling in an arm or leg.
Lipoma. Slow-growing fat cells cause this benign, soft lump that usually appears under the skin on the neck, shoulders, back or arms. A lipoma near a nerve can squeeze it. Usually, though, a lipoma causes no pain or other problems. Your health care provider might want to monitor a lipoma through regular checkups.
Ganglion cyst. Some ganglion cysts come from an injury, but most have no known cause. They commonly form near joints, such as the wrist, and can cause pain and interfere with everyday activities. Some go away without treatment, but ganglion cysts that press neighboring nerves should be removed.
Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic

Types




Neurofibroma


Schwannoma




SymptomsA benign peripheral nerve tumor can cause symptoms if it presses on the nerve in which it is growing or on nearby nerves, blood vessels or tissues.
As the tumor grows, it may be more likely to cause symptoms, but even small tumors can sometimes cause symptoms. Symptoms depend on the location of the tumor and which tissues it affects. Symptoms may include:

Swelling or a lump under your skin
Pain, tingling or numbness
Weakness or loss of function in the affected area
Dizziness or loss of balance