Newborns with PKU initially don't have any symptoms. However, without treatment, babies usually develop signs of PKU within a few months.
Signs and symptoms of untreated PKU can be mild or severe and may include:

A musty odor in the breath, skin or urine, caused by too much phenylalanine in the body
Nervous system (neurological) problems that may include seizures
Skin rashes, such as eczema
Lighter skin, hair and eye color than family members, because phenylalanine can't transform into melanin — the pigment responsible for hair and skin tone
Unusually small head size (microcephaly)
Hyperactivity
Intellectual disability
Delayed development
Behavioral, emotional and social problems
Mental health disorders

Severity variesThe severity of PKU depends on the type.

Classic PKU. The most severe form of the disorder is called classic PKU. The enzyme needed to break down phenylalanine is missing or severely reduced. This results in high levels of phenylalanine that can cause severe brain damage.
Less severe forms of PKU. In mild or moderate forms, the enzyme still has some function, so phenylalanine levels are not as high, resulting in a smaller risk of significant brain damage.

Regardless of the form, most infants, children and adults with the disorder still require a special PKU diet to prevent intellectual disability and other complications.
Pregnancy and PKUWomen who have PKU and become pregnant are at risk of another form of the condition called maternal PKU. If women don't follow the special PKU diet before and during pregnancy, blood phenylalanine levels can become high and harm the developing baby.
Even women with less severe forms of PKU may place their unborn children at risk by not following the PKU diet.
Babies born to women with high phenylalanine levels don't often inherit PKU. But a child can have serious problems if the level of phenylalanine is high in the mother's blood during pregnancy. At birth, the baby may have: 

Low birth weight
Unusually small head
Problems with the heart

In addition, maternal PKU can cause the child to have delayed development, intellectual disability and problems with behavior.