Not all pituitary tumors cause symptoms. Sometimes these tumors are found during an imaging test, such as an MRI or a CT scan, that is done for another reason. If they don't cause symptoms, pituitary tumors usually don't need treatment.
Pituitary tumor symptoms may be caused by a tumor putting pressure on the brain or on other parts of the body nearby. Symptoms also can be caused by a hormone imbalance. Hormone levels can rise when a pituitary tumor makes too much of one or more hormones. Or a large tumor that disrupts the way the pituitary gland works may cause hormone levels to fall.
Symptoms from tumor pressureMacroadenomas can put pressure on the pituitary gland, on nerves, on the brain and on other parts of the body nearby. That can cause symptoms such as:

Headache.
Eye problems due to pressure on the optic nerve, especially loss of side vision, also called peripheral vision, and double vision.
Pain in the face, sometimes including sinus pain or ear pain.
Drooping eyelid.
Seizures.
Nausea and vomiting.

Symptoms from hormone changes




	    Cushing syndrome
	    Enlarge image









Close



Cushing syndrome


Cushing syndrome
Without treatment, Cushing syndrome can cause facial roundness, weight gain around the middle body and upper back, thinning of the arms and legs, easy bruising, and stretch marks.










	    Illustration showing person with acromegaly
	    Enlarge image









Close



Illustration showing person with acromegaly


Illustration showing person with acromegaly
Symptoms of acromegaly include an enlarged face and hands. Changes to the face may cause the brow bone and lower jawbone to protrude, and the nose and lips to get larger.





Low amounts of hormones
Macroadenomas can limit the pituitary gland's ability to make hormones. When that happens, symptoms may include:

Tiredness or weakness.
Lack of energy.
Sexual problems, such as problems with erections and less interest in sex.
Changes in menstrual cycles.
Nausea.
Feeling cold.
Losing or gaining weight without trying.

High amounts of hormones
Functioning pituitary adenomas typically make a large amount of one hormone. That exposes the body to high levels of that hormone. Rarely, a pituitary adenoma may make more than one hormone. The following types of functioning pituitary adenomas cause different symptoms depending on the hormones they make.
Pituitary tumors that make adrenocorticotropic hormone
Pituitary tumors that make adrenocorticotropic hormone are called corticotroph adenomas. Adrenocorticotropic hormone, also called ACTH, causes the adrenal glands to make the hormone cortisol. ACTH tumors trigger the adrenal glands to make too much cortisol. This causes a condition called Cushing disease. Cushing disease is one cause of Cushing syndrome.
Cushing disease symptoms include:

Weight gain and fatty tissue deposits around the midsection and upper back.
Rounded face.
Stretch marks.
Thin skin that bruises easily.
Thinning of the arms and legs with muscle weakness.
Thicker or more visible body hair.
Slow healing of cuts, insect bites and infections.
Areas of darkened skin.
Acne.
Changes in menstrual cycles.
Sexual problems, including problems with erections and less interest in sex.

Pituitary tumors that make growth hormone
Pituitary tumors that make growth hormone also are called growth hormone-secreting tumors or somatotroph adenomas. Too much growth hormone leads to a condition known as acromegaly. Acromegaly can cause:

Changes in facial features, including larger lips, nose and tongue; longer lower jaw; and wide spaces between teeth.
Growth of hands and feet.
Thicker skin.
More sweating and body odor.
Joint pain.
A deeper voice.

Children and teens who have too much growth hormone might also grow faster or taller than usual. This condition is called gigantism.
Pituitary tumors that make luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone
Luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) are also known as gonadotropins. Pituitary tumors that make these hormones are called gonadotroph adenomas.
It's uncommon for these adenomas to make too many hormones that then trigger symptoms. Instead, symptoms from these adenomas usually are due to tumor pressure. If symptoms do happen because of too much LH and FSH, they affect women and men differently.
Symptoms in women may include:

Change in menstrual cycles.
Fertility problems.
Enlargement of and pain in the ovaries caused by a condition called ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome.

Symptoms in men may include:

Enlarged testicles.
Higher levels of testosterone.

Pituitary tumors that make prolactin
These adenomas are called prolactinomas. Too much of the hormone prolactin can lead to a decrease in the body's levels of sex hormones — estrogen and testosterone. Too much prolactin affects men and women differently.
In women, too much prolactin might cause:

Irregular menstrual cycles.
Lack of menstrual cycles.
Milky discharge from the breasts.
Breast tenderness.
Problems with fertility.
Less interest in sex.

In men, too much prolactin can cause a condition called male hypogonadism. Symptoms might include:

Problems with erections.
Less interest in sex.
Breast growth.
Problems with fertility.
Less body and facial hair.

Pituitary tumors that make thyroid-stimulating hormone
Pituitary tumors that make thyroid-stimulating hormone are called thyrotroph adenomas. They also may be referred to as thyroid-stimulating hormone-secreting tumors. They cause the thyroid gland to make too much of the hormone thyroxine, also called T-4. That leads to a condition called hyperthyroidism, also known as overactive thyroid disease. Hyperthyroidism can speed up the body's metabolism causing many symptoms. Some of the most common include:

Weight loss.
Rapid or irregular heartbeat.
Nervousness, anxiety or irritability.
Frequent bowel movements.
Sweating.
Tremor.
Sleep problems.