of porphyria vary, depending on the specific type of porphyria and how severe it is. Porphyria is usually inherited. One or both parents pass along a changed gene to their child.
Although porphyria can't be cured, medicines and certain lifestyle changes may help you manage it. Treatment for symptoms depends on the type of porphyria you have.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsSymptoms can vary widely by type of porphyria and in how severe the symptoms are. Symptoms also can vary among people with the condition. Some people with a gene change that causes porphyria never have any symptoms.
Acute porphyriasAcute porphyrias include forms of the disease that usually cause nervous system symptoms. A few forms also can affect the skin. Symptoms appear quickly and can be severe. Symptoms may last hours, days or weeks.
The most common form of acute porphyria is called acute intermittent porphyria (AIP). AIP may last hours or days. Intermittent means that the symptoms may go away but return later. When the symptoms occur they are sometimes called attacks.
Symptoms of acute porphyrias may include:

Severe pain in the belly, chest, legs or back.
Digestive problems, such as constipation, nausea and vomiting.
Muscle pain, tingling, numbness, weakness or paralysis.
Red or brown urine.
Mental changes, such as anxiety, hallucinations or mental confusion.
Rapid or irregular heartbeats you can feel, called palpitations.
Breathing problems.
High blood pressure.
Seizures.

Cutaneous porphyriasCutaneous porphyrias include forms of the disease that cause skin symptoms as a result of sensitivity to sunlight. These forms usually don't affect the nervous system. Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT) is the most common type of all the porphyrias.
Sun exposure may cause:

Sensitivity to the sun and sometimes artificial light, causing burning pain in the skin.
Sudden painful skin redness and swelling.
Blisters on exposed skin, usually the hands, arms and face.
Fragile thin skin with changes in skin color.
Itching.
Too much hair growth in affected areas.
Red or brown urine.

Erythropoietic protoporphyria (uh-rith-roe-poi-ET-ik pro-toe-por-FEAR-e-uh), also called EPP, is a rare type of cutaneous porphyria. It's the most common childhood porphyria. Sun or artificial light exposure quickly results in painful skin burning, irritation and swelling. Small bumps and blisters also appear. Repeated exposures can cause thick, leathery skin and scarring.