Most miscarriages happen during the first trimester of pregnancy, which is about the first 13 weeks.
The symptoms can include:

Bleeding from the vagina with or without pain, including light bleeding called spotting.
Pain or cramping in the pelvic area or lower back.
Fluid or tissue passing from the vagina.
Fast heartbeat.

If you have passed tissue from your vagina, place it in a clean container. Then, bring it to your health care professional's office or the hospital. A lab can examine the tissue to check for signs of a miscarriage.
Keep in mind that most pregnant people who have vaginal spotting or bleeding in the first trimester go on to have successful pregnancies. But call your pregnancy care team right away if your bleeding is heavy or happens with cramping pain.
Request an appointment







                 
            




There is a problem with
                                information submitted for this request. Review/update the
                                information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
                        
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.












Email



 Address 1



ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email address

Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.

To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which
                                information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with
                                other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, this could
                                include protected health information. If we combine this information with your protected
                                health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health
                                information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of
                                privacy practices. You may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on
                                the unsubscribe link in the e-mail.


Subscribe!




Thank you for subscribing!

You'll soon start receiving the latest Mayo Clinic health information you requested in your inbox.


Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes

Retry