begin gradually, often before age 65. They get worse over time. People with primary progressive aphasia can lose the ability to speak and write. Eventually they're not able to understand written or spoken language.
This condition progresses slowly. People who have primary progressive aphasia may continue caring for themselves and participating in daily activities for several years.
Primary progressive aphasia is a type of frontotemporal dementia. Frontotemporal dementia is a cluster of disorders that results from the degeneration of the frontal or temporal lobes of the brain. These areas include brain tissue involved in speech and language.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsPrimary progressive aphasia symptoms vary based on which part of the brain's language areas are involved. The condition has three types. Each type causes different symptoms. Symptoms develop over time and gradually get worse.
Semantic variant primary progressive aphasiaSymptoms include:

Trouble understanding spoken or written language, particularly single words.
Trouble understanding the meaning of words.
Not being able to name objects.
Trouble formulating sentences.

Logopenic variant primary progressive aphasiaSymptoms include:

Trouble understanding spoken language, particularly long sentences.
Pausing and hesitancy during speech while searching for words.
Not being able to repeat phrases or sentences.

Nonfluent-agrammatic variant primary progressive aphasiaSymptoms include:

Poor grammar in written and spoken language.
Trouble understanding complex sentences.
Using grammar incorrectly.
May have problems speaking. This includes making errors in speech sounds, known as apraxia of speech.

Primary progressive apraxia of speech is related to primary progressive aphasia, but people with this disorder don't have trouble with language. They have problems speaking. This includes making errors in speech sound or having trouble saying words quickly.