Signs and symptoms of rhabdomyosarcoma depend on where the cancer starts.
For example, if the cancer is in the head or neck area, symptoms may include:

Headache.
Bleeding in the nose, throat or ears.
Tearing, bulging or swelling of the eyes.

If the cancer is in the urinary or reproductive system, symptoms may include:

A mass or bleeding in the vagina or rectum.
Trouble urinating and blood in the urine.
Trouble with bowel movements.

If the cancer is in the arms or legs, symptoms may include:

Possibly pain in the affected area, if the cancer pushes on nerves or other areas of the body.
Swelling or a lump in the arm or leg.

Request an appointment







                 
            




There is a problem with
                                information submitted for this request. Review/update the
                                information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

Get Mayo Clinic cancer expertise delivered to your inbox.
                        
Subscribe for free and receive an in-depth guide to coping
                            with cancer, plus helpful information on how to get a second opinion. You can unsubscribe at any
                            time. Click here for an email preview.

Email address














I would like to learn more about




Up-to-date cancer news & research


Mayo Clinic cancer care & management
                                    options
ErrorSelect
                                    a topic


ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email address


 Address 1




Subscribe

Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.

To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which
                                information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with
                                other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, this could
                                include protected health information. If we combine this information with your protected
                                health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health
                                information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of
                                privacy practices. You may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on
                                the unsubscribe link in the e-mail.




Thank you for subscribing



































Your in-depth coping with cancer guide will be in your inbox shortly. You will also
                                receive emails from Mayo Clinic on the latest about cancer news, research, and care.
If you don’t receive our email within 5 minutes, check your SPAM folder, then contact us
                                at newsletters@mayoclinic.com.


Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes

Retry