can include headaches, hearing loss, trouble with balance and pain. Treatment focuses on managing symptoms.





SymptomsSchwannomatosis symptoms depend on the type.
NF2-related schwannomatosisSymptoms of NF2-related schwannomatosis (NF2) usually result from slow-growing tumors in both ears, known as acoustic neuromas or vestibular schwannomas. The tumors are benign, which means that they are not cancerous.
The tumors grow on the nerve that carries sound and balance information from the inner ear to the brain. These tumors can cause hearing loss.
Symptoms tend to appear during the late teen and early adult years, and can vary. Symptoms may include:

Gradual hearing loss.
Ringing in the ears.
Poor balance.
Headaches.

Sometimes NF2 can lead to the growth of tumors on other nerves, including in the brain, spine and eyes. They also can grow on peripheral nerves, which are located outside of the brain and spinal cord. People who have NF2 also may develop other benign tumors.
Symptoms of these tumors can include:

Numbness and weakness in the arms or legs.
Pain.
Poor balance.
Facial drop.
Changes in vision or cataracts.
Seizures.
Headaches.

SMARCB1- and LZTR1-related schwannomatosisThese two types of schwannomatosis typically affect people after age 20. Symptoms usually appear between ages 25 and 30.
SMARCB1- and LZTR1-related schwannomatosis can cause tumors to grow on nerves in the brain, spine and eyes. Tumors also may grow on peripheral nerves located outside of the brain and spinal cord.
Symptoms of SMARCB1- and LZTR1-related schwannomatosis include:

Long-lasting pain, which can occur anywhere in the body and can be disabling.
Numbness or weakness in various parts of the body.
Loss of muscle, known as atrophy.

These types of schwannomatosis also can cause tumors to grow in the ear. But it happens rarely, and tumors usually grow in only one ear. This differs from NF2, which causes tumors to grow in both ears. For this reason, people with SMARCB1- and LZTR1-related schwannomatosis don't have the same hearing loss as people who have NF2.