Scleroderma symptoms vary from person to person, depending on which parts of the body are affected.
Skin-related symptomsNearly everyone who has scleroderma experiences hardening and tightening of the skin.
The first parts of the body to be affected are usually the fingers, hands, feet and face. In some people, the skin thickening also can involve the forearms, upper arms, chest, abdomen, lower legs and thighs. Early symptoms may include swelling and itchiness. The color of affected skin can become lighter or darker, and skin may look shiny because of the tightness.
Some people also have small red spots, called telangiectasia, on their hands and face. Calcium deposits can form under the skin, particularly at the fingertips, causing bumps that can be seen on X-rays.
Raynaud's phenomenonRaynaud's phenomenon is common in scleroderma. It happens because of an exaggerated contraction of the small blood vessels in the fingers and toes in response to cold temperatures or emotional distress. When this happens, the digits may feel painful or numb and turn white, blue, gray or red. Raynaud's phenomenon also can occur in people who don't have scleroderma.
Digestive symptomsScleroderma can affect any part of the digestive system, from the esophagus to the rectum. Depending on which parts of the digestive system are affected, symptoms may include:

Heartburn.
Difficulty swallowing.
Bloating.
Diarrhea.
Constipation.
Fecal incontinence.

Heart- and lung-related symptomsWhen scleroderma affects the heart or lungs, it can cause shortness of breath, decreased exercise tolerance and dizziness. Scleroderma can cause scarring in the lung tissues that may result in increasing shortness of breath over time. There are medicines that may help slow the progression of this lung damage.
Scleroderma also can cause the blood pressure to increase in the circulation that goes between the heart and the lungs. This is called pulmonary hypertension. In addition to causing shortness of breath, pulmonary hypertension also can cause excess fluid to build up in the legs, feet and sometimes around the heart.
When scleroderma affects the heart, heartbeats can become irregular. Heart failure also may happen in some people.
Request an appointment







                 
            




There is a problem with
                                information submitted for this request. Review/update the
                                information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
                        
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.












Email



 Address 1



ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email address

Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.

To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which
                                information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with
                                other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, this could
                                include protected health information. If we combine this information with your protected
                                health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health
                                information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of
                                privacy practices. You may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on
                                the unsubscribe link in the e-mail.


Subscribe!




Thank you for subscribing!

You'll soon start receiving the latest Mayo Clinic health information you requested in your inbox.


Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes

Retry