Salivary glands
	    Enlarge image









Close



Salivary glands


Salivary glands
There are three pairs of major salivary glands. These glands are the parotid, sublingual and submandibular glands. Each gland has its own tube, called a duct, leading from the gland to the mouth.





The two main symptoms of Sjogren's syndrome are:

Dry eyes. Your eyes might burn, itch or feel gritty — as if there's sand in them.
Dry mouth. Your mouth might feel like it's full of cotton, making it difficult to swallow or speak.

Some people with Sjogren's syndrome also have one or more of the following:

Joint pain, swelling and stiffness
Swollen salivary glands — particularly the set located behind your jaw and in front of your ears
Skin rashes or dry skin
Vaginal dryness
Persistent dry cough
Prolonged fatigue

Request an appointment







                 
            




There is a problem with
                                information submitted for this request. Review/update the
                                information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
                        
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.












Email



 Address 1



ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email address

Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.

To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which
                                information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with
                                other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, this could
                                include protected health information. If we combine this information with your protected
                                health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health
                                information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of
                                privacy practices. You may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on
                                the unsubscribe link in the e-mail.


Subscribe!




Thank you for subscribing!

You'll soon start receiving the latest Mayo Clinic health information you requested in your inbox.


Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes

Retry