Spinal cord injuries
	    Enlarge image









Close



Spinal cord injuries


Spinal cord injuries
Paralysis of the lower half of the body is called paraplegia. Paralysis below the neck, including both arms and legs, is called quadriplegia.





The ability to control your arms or legs after a spinal cord injury depends on two factors. One factor is where the injury occurred on the spinal cord. The other factor is how bad the injury is.
The lowest part of the spinal cord not damaged after an injury is known as the neurological level of the injury. "The completeness" of the injury refers to how much feeling, known as sensation, is lost. Completeness is classified as:

Complete. If all feeling and all ability to control movement are lost below the spinal cord injury, the injury is called complete.
Incomplete. If some feeling and control of movement remain below the affected area, the injury is called incomplete. There are varying degrees of incomplete injury.

Loss of feeling and control of movement is known as paralysis. Paralysis from a spinal cord injury can be referred to as:

Tetraplegia, also known as quadriplegia. This means that your arms, hands, trunk, legs and pelvic organs are all affected by your spinal cord injury.
Paraplegia. This paralysis affects all or part of the trunk, legs and pelvic organs but not the arms.

Your healthcare team performs a series of tests to determine the neurological level and completeness of your injury.
Spinal cord injuries can cause the following symptoms:

Loss of movement.
Loss of or a change in sensation. This includes a change in the ability to feel heat, cold and touch.
Loss of bowel or bladder control.
Exaggerated reflex activities or spasms.
Changes in sexual function, sexual sensitivity and fertility.
Pain or an intense stinging sensation caused by damage to the nerve fibers in the spinal cord.
Trouble breathing, coughing or clearing secretions from the lungs.

Emergency symptomsEmergency symptoms of a spinal cord injury after an accident include:

Extreme back pain or pressure in the neck, head or back.
Weakness, incoordination or loss of control in any part of the body.
Numbness, tingling or loss of feeling in the hands, fingers, feet or toes.
Loss of bladder or bowel control.
Trouble with balance and walking.
Trouble breathing after injury.
A twisted neck or back.