can get worse over time.
The most common cause of spinal stenosis is wear-and-tear damage in the spine related to arthritis. People who have serious spinal stenosis may need surgery.
Surgery can create more space inside the spine. This can ease the symptoms caused by pressure on the spinal cord or nerves. But surgery can't cure arthritis, so arthritis pain in the spine may continue.Products & ServicesA Book: Back and Neck HealthA Book: Mayo Clinic Guide to Pain ReliefShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsSpinal stenosis often causes no symptoms. When symptoms do happen, they start slowly and get worse over time. Symptoms depend on which part of the spine is affected.
In the lower backSpinal stenosis in the lower back can cause pain or cramping in one or both legs. This happens when you stand for a long time or when you walk. Symptoms get better when you bend forward or sit. Some people also have back pain.
In the neckSpinal stenosis in the neck can cause:

Numbness.
Tingling or weakness in a hand, leg, foot or arm.
Problems with walking and balance.
Neck pain.
Problems with the bowel or bladder.

Request an appointment







                 
            




There is a problem with
                                information submitted for this request. Review/update the
                                information highlighted below and resubmit the form.

From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
                        
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.












Email



 Address 1



ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email address

Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.

To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which
                                information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with
                                other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, this could
                                include protected health information. If we combine this information with your protected
                                health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health
                                information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of
                                privacy practices. You may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on
                                the unsubscribe link in the e-mail.


Subscribe!




Thank you for subscribing!

You'll soon start receiving the latest Mayo Clinic health information you requested in your inbox.


Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes

Retry