depend on where on the spine the opening is located and how big it is. Symptoms also depend on whether the spinal cord and nerves are involved. When necessary, early treatment for spina bifida involves surgery. However, surgery doesn't always completely restore lost function.
Types




	    Spina bifida (myelomeningocele)
	    Enlarge image









Close



Spina bifida (myelomeningocele)


Spina bifida (myelomeningocele)
Myelomeningocele is the most serious type of spina bifida. The spinal cord's protective covering and the spinal nerves protrude at birth, forming a sac on the baby's back. The exposed nervous system may become infected, so prompt surgery is needed after birth.





Spina bifida occurs in different types: spina bifida occulta, myelomeningocele (my-uh-lo-muh-NING-go-seel) or the very rare type, meningocele (muh-NING-go-seel).
Spina bifida occulta
Occulta means hidden. Spina bifida occulta is the mildest and most common type. This type of spina bifida results in a small separation or gap in one or more of the bones of the spine, called vertebrae. Many people who have spina bifida occulta don't know they have it. It may be found during an imaging test such as an X-ray that is done for another reason.
Myelomeningocele
Myelomeningocele is the most serious type. It also is known as open spina bifida. The spinal canal is open along several vertebrae in the lower or middle back. Part of the spinal cord, including the spinal cord's protective covering and spinal nerves, push through this opening at birth, forming a sac on the baby's back. Tissues and nerves usually are exposed. This makes the baby prone to dangerous infections. This type also may cause loss of movement in the legs, and bladder and bowel dysfunction.
Meningocele
This is a rare type of spina bifida. In this type, a sac of spinal fluid bulges through an opening in the spine. No nerves are affected and the spinal cord isn't in the fluid sac. Babies with meningocele may have some minor trouble with functioning, including with the bladder and bowels.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsSymptoms of spina bifida vary by type and from one person to another.

Spina bifida occulta. Typically, there aren't any symptoms of spina bifida occulta because the spinal nerves aren't involved. But you can sometimes see symptoms on the newborn's skin above the small gap in the spine. You might see a tuft of hair, a small dimple or a birthmark. Sometimes, these skin marks can be symptoms of a spinal cord issue that can be found with MRI or a spinal ultrasound in a newborn.
Meningocele. This type may affect bladder and bowel function.
Myelomeningocele. In this most serious type of spina bifida, the spinal canal remains open along several vertebrae in the lower or middle back. The membranes and part of the spinal cord or nerves protrude at birth, forming a sac. Tissues and nerves usually are exposed, though sometimes skin covers the sac. Babies with this type of spina bifida may have trouble with bladder and bowel function. They also may experience weakness or lack of movement in the legs. Babies may have a buildup of fluid in the brain called hydrocephalus that can put pressure on brain tissue.