Primary syphilis
	    Enlarge image









Close



Primary syphilis


Primary syphilis
Primary syphilis causes painless sores (chancres) on the genitals, rectum, tongue or lips. The disease can be present with the appearance of a single chancre (shown here on a penis) or many.





Syphilis develops in stages. The symptoms vary with each stage. But the stages may overlap. And the symptoms don't always happen in the same order. You may be infected with syphilis bacteria without noticing any symptoms for years.
Primary syphilisThe first symptom of syphilis is a small sore called a chancre (SHANG-kur). The sore is often painless. It appears at the spot where the bacteria entered your body. Most people with syphilis develop only one chancre. Some people get more than one. 
The chancre often forms about three weeks after you come in contact with syphilis bacteria. Many people who have syphilis don't notice the chancre. That's because it's usually painless. It also may be hidden within the vagina or rectum. The chancre heals on its own within 3 to 6 weeks.
Secondary syphilisYou may get a rash while the first chancre heals or a few weeks after it heals.
A rash caused by syphilis:

Often is not itchy.
May look rough, red or reddish-brown.
Might be so faint that it's hard to see.

The rash often starts on the trunk of the body. That includes the chest, stomach area, pelvis and back. In time, it also could appear on the limbs, the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet.
Along with the rash, you may have symptoms such as:

Wartlike sores in the mouth or genital area.
Hair loss.
Muscle aches.
Fever.
Sore throat.
Tiredness, also called fatigue.
Weight loss.
Swollen lymph nodes.

Symptoms of secondary syphilis may go away on their own. But without treatment, they could come and go for months or years.
Latent syphilisIf you aren't treated for syphilis, the disease moves from the secondary stage to the latent stage. This also is called the hidden stage because you have no symptoms. The latent stage can last for years. Your symptoms may never come back. But without treatment, the disease might lead to major health problems, also called complications.
Tertiary syphilisAfter the latent stage, up to 30% to 40% of people with syphilis who don't get treatment have complications known as tertiary syphilis. Another name for it is late syphilis.
The disease may damage the:

Brain.
Nerves.
Eyes.
Heart.
Blood vessels.
Liver.
Bones and joints.

These problems may happen many years after the original, untreated infection.
Syphilis that spreadsAt any stage, untreated syphilis can affect the brain, spinal cord, eyes and other body parts. This can cause serious or life-threatening health problems.
Congenital syphilisPregnant people who have syphilis can pass the disease to their babies. Unborn babies can become infected through the organ that provides nutrients and oxygen in the womb, called the placenta. Infection also can happen during birth.
Newborns with congenital syphilis might have no symptoms. But without fast treatment, some babies might get:

Sores and rashes on the skin.
Fever.
A type of discolored skin and eyes, called jaundice.
Not enough red blood cells, called anemia.
Swollen spleen and liver.
Sneezing or stuffed, drippy nose, called rhinitis.
Bone changes.

Later symptoms may include deafness, teeth problems and saddle nose, a condition in which the bridge of the nose collapses.
Babies with syphilis also can be born too early. They may die in the womb before birth. Or they could die after birth.