of a temporal lobe seizure may be related to these functions. Some people have odd feelings during the seizure, such as joy, deja vu or fear.
Temporal lobe seizures are sometimes called focal seizures with impaired awareness. Some people remain aware of what's happening during the seizure. But if the seizure is more intense, the person might look awake but won't respond to what's around them. The person's lips and hands may make motions over and over.
The cause of temporal lobe seizures is often not known. But it may stem from a scar in the temporal lobe. Temporal lobe seizures are treated with medicine. For some people who don't respond to medicine, surgery may be an option.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsAn unusual sensation known as an aura may happen before a temporal lobe seizure. An aura acts as a warning. Not everyone who has temporal lobe seizures has auras. And not everyone who has auras remembers them.
The aura is the first part of a focal seizure before a loss of consciousness. Examples of auras include:

A sudden sense of fear or joy.
A feeling that what's happening has happened before, known as deja vu.
A sudden or strange odor or taste.
A rising sensation in the belly similar to being on a roller coaster.

Sometimes temporal lobe seizures impair your ability to respond to others. This type of temporal lobe seizure usually lasts 30 seconds to 2 minutes.
Symptoms of a temporal lobe seizure include:

Not being aware of the people and things around you.
Staring.
Lip smacking.
Repeated swallowing or chewing.
Finger movements, such as picking motions.

After a temporal lobe seizure, you may have:

A period of confusion and trouble speaking.
Inability to recall what occurred during the seizure.
Not being aware of having had a seizure.
Extreme sleepiness.

In extreme cases, what starts as a temporal lobe seizure evolves into a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. This type of seizure causes shaking, known as convulsions, and loss of consciousness. It also is called a grand mal seizure.