Most people infected with toxoplasmosis do not have any symptoms. They often don't know they're infected. Some people have flu-like symptoms, including:

Fever.
Swollen lymph nodes that may last for weeks.
Headache.
Muscle aches.
Skin rash.

Symptoms of eye diseaseThe toxoplasma parasites may infect tissues of the inner eye. This can occur in people with healthy immune systems. But the disease is more serious in people with weakened immunity. An infection in the eye is called ocular toxoplasmosis. Symptoms may include:

Eye pain.
Poor vision.
Floaters, which are specks that seem to swim in your vision.

Untreated eye disease can cause blindness.
Effect on people with weakened immune systemsPeople with weakened immune systems are likely to have more-serious disease from toxoplasmosis. A toxoplasmosis infection from earlier in life may become active again. People at risk include those living with HIV/AIDS, people receiving cancer treatment and people with a transplanted organ.
In addition to serious eye disease, toxoplasmosis can cause severe lung or brain disease for a person with weakened immunity. Rarely, the infection can show up in other tissues throughout the body.
Lung infection may cause:

Breathing problems.
Fever.
Cough.

Toxoplasmosis may cause inflammation of the brain, also called encephalitis. Symptoms may include:

Confusion.
Poor coordination.
Muscle weakness.
Seizures.
Changes in alertness.

Effect on fetus or infantToxoplasmosis can pass from the mother to the fetus during a pregnancy. This is called congenital toxoplasmosis.
Infection during the first trimester often causes more-severe disease. It also may result in miscarriage. For some babies with toxoplasmosis, serious disease may be present at birth or appear early in infancy. Medical problems may include:

Too much fluid in or around the brain, also called hydrocephalus.
Severe eye infection.
Irregularities in brain tissues.
An enlarged liver or spleen.

Symptoms of severe disease vary. They may include:

Problems with mental or motor skills.
Blindness or other vision problems.
Hearing problems.
Seizures.
Heart disorders.
Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes, also called jaundice.
Rash.

Most babies with toxoplasmosis do not show symptoms. But problems may show up later in childhood or teenage years. These include:

Return of eye infections.
Problems with motor skill development.
Problems with thinking and learning.
Hearing loss.
Slowed growth.
Early puberty.