Symptoms of trichotillomania often include:

Repeatedly pulling out your hair, whether it's automatic or on purpose, usually from your scalp, eyebrows or eyelashes, but sometimes from other body areas. The sites may vary over time.
An increasing sense of tension before pulling out your hair, or when you try to resist pulling.
A sense of pleasure or relief after the hair is pulled out.
Hair loss that's easy to see, such as shortened hair or thinned or bald areas on the scalp or other areas of your body. This may include thin or missing eyelashes or eyebrows.
Pulling out specific types of hair, taking the same steps in the same way each time hair is pulled out or pulling out hair in certain patterns.
Biting, chewing or eating pulled-out hair.
Playing with pulled-out hair or rubbing it across your lips or face.
Repeatedly trying to stop pulling out your hair or trying to do it less often without success.
Experiencing a great deal of distress or problems at work, school or in social situations related to pulling out your hair.

Often trichotillomania also includes picking your skin, biting your nails or chewing your lips. Sometimes pulling out hairs from pets or dolls or from materials, such as clothes or blankets, may be a sign. Pulling out hair is usually done in private. An episode can last from a few seconds to hours. You may try to hide your condition from others.
With trichotillomania, pulling out hair can be:

Automatic. You may pull out your hair without even realizing that you're doing it. This might happen, for example, when you're bored, reading or watching TV.
Focused. You may pull out your hair on purpose to relieve tension or distress. You may develop specific rituals for pulling out hair, such as finding just the right hair. You may play with, bite or eat pulled-out hairs.

You may do both automatic and focused hair pulling, depending on the situation and your mood. Certain positions or activities may trigger pulling out hair, such as resting your head on your hand or brushing your hair.
Trichotillomania can be related to emotions, including:

Negative feelings. Pulling out hair may be a way of dealing with negative or uncomfortable feelings, such as stress, anxiety, tension, boredom, loneliness, extreme tiredness or frustration.
Positive feelings. You may find that pulling out hair feels satisfying and provides some relief. As a result, you may continue to pull out your hair to keep these positive feelings.

Trichotillomania is a long-term disorder. If not treated, symptoms may come and go for weeks, months or years at a time. Also, symptoms can vary in severity over time. For example, hormone changes during the menstrual period can worsen symptoms in some females. Rarely, pulling out hair ends within a few years of starting.