vary widely, depending on where the growths develop and how big they get.
Tuberous sclerosis is often first found during infancy or childhood. Sometimes tuberous sclerosis can have such mild symptoms that the condition isn't diagnosed until adulthood, or it's not diagnosed at all. Sometimes tuberous sclerosis causes serious disabilities.
There is no cure for tuberous sclerosis, and the course of the disorder and how bad it gets can't be predicted. But treatments are available to manage symptoms.Products & ServicesA Book: Mayo Clinic Family Health BookNewsletter: Mayo Clinic Health Letter — Digital EditionShow more products from Mayo Clinic





SymptomsTuberous sclerosis symptoms are caused by noncancerous growths in parts of the body, most commonly in the skin, brain, eyes, kidneys, heart and lungs. But any part of the body can be affected. Symptoms can range from mild to severe, depending on the size or location of the growths.
Although symptoms are different for each person with tuberous sclerosis, they can include:

Skin changes. Skin changes are most common. These include patches of lighter skin and small areas of thickened, smooth or bumpy skin. On the forehead, skin can have raised, discolored areas. Small soft bumps under or around the nails may occur. Growths on the face that start in childhood and look like acne are common.
Seizures. Growths in the brain may be linked with seizures. A seizure is often the first symptom of tuberous sclerosis. In small children, a common type of seizure called infantile spasm involves stiffening of the arms and legs and arching the back and head.
Problems in thinking, reasoning and learning. Tuberous sclerosis can result in developmental delays. Sometimes it limits the ability to think, reason and learn. Mental health conditions, such as autism spectrum disorder or attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), also can occur.
Behavior problems. Common behavior problems may include hyperactivity, self-injury or aggression, or issues with social and emotional adjustment.
Kidney problems. Growths on the kidneys are common, and more growths may develop with age.
Heart issues. Growths in the heart, if present, are usually largest at birth and shrink as a child gets older.
Lung problems. Growths that develop in the lungs may cause coughing or trouble breathing, especially with physical activity or exercise. These lung tumors occur more often in females than in males.
Eye problems. Growths can appear as white patches on the light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye called the retina. These growths usually don't interfere with vision.
Dental changes. Teeth may have pits in the surface. Small growths may appear on the gums, inside of the cheeks and on the tongue.